I may have I may have completely messed
up our recording for the first meeting
and I apologize to everyone for that.
Okay. Uh so this is our March 25th
regular board of finance meeting. We'll
start pledge allegiance again. I pledge
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America
to the
>> republic for it stands
one nation under God indivisible
indivisible and justice and justice for
all.
>> Okay. So I'm going to apologize
profusely to Kate later for messing up
the recording before um because we
literally talked about it right before
we got on this meeting. So anyway,
uh my fault. Sorry about that. We will
deal with it. Um, okay. So, we left off
talking about our capital budget,
>> right? But don't we need to go through
our don't we
>> we're going to go through our I'm going
to get I have to get our agenda up
because I have unfortunately it's
bizarre that my PDF program on this
particular laptop literally can only
have one document open at a time. I
apologize. So, we're going to do public
speak. We're going to go around. We're
gonna do public speak again. Sorry,
guys. All right. So,
uh, Scott, do you have public speak to
offer?
>> I'm good. Thank you.
>> Carol,
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> All right, Eric,
I see you've joined us from public
works. Good to see you. You're muted.
>> I'm good, thank you.
>> Okay, but thanks for being here. Um,
it's changing on me. Joanne, do you have
further public comment for us?
>> Just a quick one, Rob. Um, I want to uh
applaud all of you. I know how painful
it is for some of you to to to make
cuts, but remember this is a year that
the town is kind of in a little bit of
disarray. you know, the main thing is to
get it all up and running with people,
you know, staffed, which is important.
So, the projects may be a little slower
going this year, you know, getting
people all up to speed and stuff. So, if
there ever was a year to cut a little
bit here and there, you know, you have
to I don't think you can take this
budget as constructed. It's just not
fair to the taxpayers to bring something
with such a high, you know, level. I
don't expect any of our selectmen that
support things to, you know, tell you
where to cut. They expect that you're,
you know, they're going to bring you the
budget and then you're going to have to
look at the tough numbers and hopefully
make a couple capital fund things.
You've seen the balances. There's some
balances there. You've also uncovered
that there's the town aid road money.
Um, again, I don't want to see cuts
either, but there's a job to do. So,
good luck doing it. And, um, that's all.
Thanks.
>> Thanks.
Uh,
I think that's everyone for the public.
Um, all right. So, going back to our
agenda,
changes, additions. So, I I have some
thoughts on this one. Um, because
literally the next thing on the agenda
is town administrator's report. We don't
have a town administrator. So,
I I think we should probably strike
that. Um, I think we should probably
you know, strike donation requests.
That's not a thing we're dealing with
right now.
Same with school bathroom. Um,
and that's and the rest I'd leave.
That's my take, guys. What do you think?
>> I'm fine with that.
>> Yeah. Should we do that?
>> We have to do a motion or
>> No, I I was going to I was proposing it
as a as a course of action to see what
you guys thought and then we can make
the motion.
Okay.
>> Um,
>> do you want me to do it since I Yeah, my
motion would be to delete item four,
town administrator's report,
>> and delete 5C and 5D, donation requests
and status of bathroom project, bathroom
renovation project. This is just too
much to get to and we don't really have
anything to add there. We have done
reports. Do we have We do have
correspondence. Okay, good. So, that's
my motion.
Do we actually do we actually want to
delete them or do we just decide we're
not going over it because do we want
them off? We certainly don't want them
off the
agenda for
>> Oh, you mean you want to leave it down
the road? Uh, Liz, right? Uh, what do
you do? You
>> So, we just can we just choose without
making a motion. Can we just choose to
say
>> Sure.
>> Okay.
>> We're not going to go over them.
>> All right. I don't care. That's fine by
me. So, does anybody else have any
changes, additions?
>> I'll withdraw my motion.
>> No. Okay. So, forest town
administrator's report, we just
discussed it. We don't have a town
administrator, so we won't be doing
that.
>> That brings us to
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Um, what's the status on that on
hiring one?
>> Excellent question. Do we have a status
board of selector?
>> That'd be great. Update.
Carol, you want to give them an update?
>> I don't have an update.
>> Okay. So, we have no we have no meeting
scheduled.
>> I Okay. Sorry,
>> Carol. You don't
>> I thought we had
>> Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Do
we have any meetings scheduled to uh
move forward on the town administrator?
>> I looked on the calendar. I didn't see
anything.
>> Okay. If you're deciding to do that,
please let Scott and I know.
>> Yeah.
>> If I see something, I will send you a
text or an email.
>> Can I can I ask what does that mean if
you see something? I mean, who makes the
decision to call the meeting about this?
I mean, we got three
>> everybody. Everybody, everybody, any
selectman,
>> any select
>> call a meeting,
>> it's appropriate if you sit there and
communicate with the other selectman
that you're going to do it. So, right
now, Bill, I'm not I I'm understanding
that there's a potential agenda uh for a
special meeting on Monday. I haven't
been asked if I can attend it, but I
understand that there's a potential
agenda for that meeting, which would
mean that um we can potentially hire uh
the town administrator Monday possibly.
>> And and we still have some of those
candidates left from the selection
committee that we interviewed. There are
still people available from that.
>> Not the top two,
>> huh?
>> Not the top two.
So,
uh, if I if I listen, if I had my way
and what I've tried to tell the board of
selectmen previously is that they should
restart the whole process.
Bill knows he was on the committee.
Joanne was on the committee.
We thought we did a good job. We
presented two people back to the board
of selectmen. Those were not accepted.
And
>> so,
>> can I just say something though? this we
better get back to the board of finance.
They have a lot of work to do and this
isn't fair to them.
>> They all I would say
I think this is an important
conversation.
>> Good lord. We need to get this done.
>> Yes, we do.
>> This is absolutely
>> this is a very this is a serious
conversation
>> and we've got to get through this and
maybe one of the most important thing I
mean it's not going to save us for the
the budget, okay? But this is really
important for the town. We
>> I I just want to share something.
>> If I could share something.
>> Go ahead. Please.
>> As a member of the selection committee,
>> we felt and you can ask Joanne, you can
ask Van Car, you can ask anybody was on
that board, an creme, you uh Jeff, we
all felt exuberated over the quality of
every candidate. We thought we had an
unbelievable
group of people and that no matter who
we ended up with, we would be lucky
on the five or six people and we
narrowed it down to four.
We all felt any one of them could do the
job. So to be sitting here today without
anybody in that position yet is just
irresponsible. There's a good candidate
still available. We should get to work
and do it. It's it's just crazy. out of
the four people that we had all of them
capable to do that job. All of them.
Let's pick one and do it. That that's
and this whole board knows and remembers
that every single board on that select
person on that selection committee said
we are lucky to have these candidates.
They're all good candidates that could
do the job today if needed.
>> So correct dig our heels get to work.
>> But Bill, Bill, wait. You know as well
as I do that that committee picked two
top two candidates, presented both top
two candidates, would have hired either
one of those two top candidates and they
chose to move to the third and the
fourth candidate.
So you can sit there, you can sit there
and do whatever you want like this. This
can go. We're going to go to another
meeting. This is what's going to happen.
I sat there and said and we we don't
have to waste time, but sat there and
said start the process over.
So start the process over in selection
commission start from scratch.
>> Do a new selection committee. Yeah.
>> Oh for Christ. Why?
>> Excuse me Rob. Can I say one thing?
>> Well hold on hold on hold on. I I got to
keep control of this meeting. But
>> Joan, you were on the selection
committee as well.
>> Yeah. I just was going to say I agree
with Bill. I know that there was, you
know, four very qualified candidates.
I've kept everything confidential. I've
sent, you know, numerous emails to the
selection committee with my thoughts on
why we would need an experienced person
to come in. I think you can find that in
those candidates that we have. So, I
wholeheartedly agree with Bill. I mean,
I loved that we all had a couple
opinions. That's all I'm going to say.
>> You know, everybody brought their own
opinions to the table, but we, you know,
respected everyone. So,
>> thank you.
>> I'm hoping they can find one. So, thank
you for allowing me to speak. Thanks,
Joan.
>> It's needed. This whole budget process
has has proven that a candidate needs to
sit in there. So, thank you. Good luck.
>> Totally. Thanks, Joanne. So, you know,
guys, look, this isn't the airing of
grievances, but I I'm just saying
please, please, please, please, please
find a way. Okay, let's move on.
>> I mean, we gota we got to get it we got
to get it we got to get it done. So,
moving on from that
because we just, you know, we don't have
one right now. That brings us to old
business review of budget to actual. I
have a confession to make. I worked
today. I logged on at 5:40 with no time
whatsoever to look at the packet. So, if
you have, by all means, take it away.
Liz, if you've gone through it, I'd be
happy to hand off
You don't need to hand it off. I I just
I highlighted a few things that I
noticed that we were um overbudget on
and some of them probably make a lot of
sense. If you want me to just go through
and I'm looking at the profit and loss
statement versus the actual so whatever.
Um
>> so yeah, to the extent that Lisa can
help, you know, yeah, help with that.
>> I'm just going to name them and we're
all going to say, "Oh yeah, that makes
sense." So, we're over, as we know, on
the assistant town clerk salary, we kind
of Did we expect that? On the assistant
town clerk salary, we're over by 130%.
There was um I believe there was a
vacation um buyout when she left the
other position and came to that
position.
So, that would make
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Oh, it zeros out. Interesting.
>> That would make Yes. Okay. I do recall
that.
>> Um, and the assistant registars's salary
were over by $107%.
Which
>> don't be scared. That's only $139. But,
>> you know, when you when you see that in
the column, you go,
>> can you share that?
>> Can can you share that?
>> But I mean, it's just easier to look at.
>> Yeah, go ahead. I'll let you share
again.
>> Sorry. Yep. I was looking on a piece of
paper, but I will pull up the um
>> You can read from the piece of paper,
but show us the
>> Yep. Uh let me just get to where I was.
>> Good.
>> Okay. So, here it is.
Um so, I got to find the page. Me, I got
to make this I got to expand this.
Okay. And all of you people are in my
way. There you go. Okay. So,
so page who
>> is the uh assistant
>> Oh, I see the 107. Yeah,
>> the assistant registar salary. Yeah. So,
there's that. Um, it's $139. I don't
know what
>> the reason for that.
Assistant registar salary.
So I highlighted that
>> the registar salary do they get $2,000
quarterly? Is that what they normally
get?
>> I'm not familiar yet with what they get.
>> This is the assistant registars.
>> Oh, I thought you said the registars at
first because that's over 117%.
That's over 17%.
>> The registar salary.
Oh, on this it says um
>> well actually I should back up because
this is as of March 25th. So you are in
um that is February 28th. Is that right?
>> No, this is March 5th. This is the one
that's in in our packet.
>> Oh
>> yes, but it's through February. It's
through February. See the top it says
July 25 through February
>> through February. Yep. That is till the
last day of February. So, let me go back
and um change my date to be the same as
yours.
>> Okay. So, I mean that's okay if if we're
over more than we thought. You could
chime in on that. That's okay, too.
Um
where else are we? Do you want me to
just keep going? We don't have to
>> Well, I I guess the normally what would
happen here, Liz, is someone like Eric
would say, "Oh, that's because
>> Oh, right. Yeah, that's right. Yes,
that's why I'm asking what those because
so far in your assistant registar salary
there's a payment of 500 to each of them
and there's a payment of 569.50 in July.
So I don't know why it's 69.50 more than
the $500 payment.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's why it's over a little bit.
They they and it was the same with the
registars. There was a little bit more
in the July payment than the rest of the
year. I'm not sure why they did that.
And does anybody our board select have
any information about that?
>> Can we just highlight that? And
>> are are you asking about the $239?
That's a payroll function. That's a
that's
how much is the train the assistant
treasurer 139.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So, what would have to happen,
Bill, is is you'd have to go through the
payroll and you'd have to sit there and
see what is hitting that line item and
then we'll be able to give you an
answer.
>> Again,
>> we had a town admin, they'd be able to
answer.
>> He wouldn't know that answer.
>> You wouldn't know that answer. Okay.
>> No,
>> he usually knew that kind of stuff, but
okay.
>> Who did payroll? Um,
so
and then we get down to the
community center director. That is not
unexpected either.
We're over
122% and it's probably more than that by
now,
>> right? Because we're basically paying
two people,
>> right?
Um,
>> is that something we anticipate that
we'll have to touch contingency for this
year?
>> Uh, that is possible, but also that's
being rectified into the next budget. We
talked about that last night related to
the hourly rates,
>> right? Because the reason why that is
over is because
after the unfortunate incident with the
community center director and the hiring
of the assistant to take over, we kept
her at that higher rate to sit there and
get through this year.
>> Yeah. Just just trying to plan.
>> Yeah. We're over in office supplies in
the town side.
That's one of those things that in
evaluating the bills, we need to do a
better job internally to sit there and
make sure they all the supplies get put
to the right department. That is
something that we're not sure is really
have been done properly in the past.
>> Yep. Okay. Yeah, we talked a little bit
about that last night.
>> Yeah. And there were checks. Remember
last time we talked about checks?
>> Um we had to order checks from
QuickBooks and that was a large amount.
That's in there.
>> Okay.
Um in the town garage,
>> we have some new people. I assume that's
what that's about.
>> Uh office supplies 120. What I mean
again, we're over budget by 60 bucks.
>> The town garage needed to train somebody
for a tree warden. I think that was part
of that. If I'm look, if I remember
right, I'd have to check again.
>> Zach is a tree warden now.
What else? Um,
we just want to go down and just see
anything that public works
>> templary
public works salary. I mean, that's
I mean overall they're still under, but
um
>> uh snow removal, that's no surprise.
>> Can Can you Can you just slide back to
that temp one?
Yeah.
>> And over by
>> Lisa, is there is there any way to drill
into that number?
>> Yeah, let me um get there. I was getting
there. Hold on.
>> I'm sorry. Which one are you talking
about?
>> Uh temp public works salary.
>> Oh,
>> 3011.
>> Robert Tuttle.
>> Okay. So, so that was uh
>> that's the only thing going in there is
is his salary.
>> Yep. He he has been working and and I
don't know when the last time that
occurred. When's the last time that
>> January?
>> All right. Jay was helping out, right?
>> He Jay's been helping Eric get
acclimated.
>> January 28th was the last check.
>> And by the way, Eric is on I don't know
if he's still on this call, but he's
doing a really good job.
>> Okay. So, that's transition basically.
That's what that cost us.
>> Yep.
>> Um just no removal overtime. No big
surprise there.
>> Nope.
>> Um,
and here's the fire marshall office
supplies 533%.
I don't know what
>> I mean, you know. Yeah, it's it looks
like it's about 166 over. Uh, it's not a
ton, but hopefully they can.
>> The other day we talked about those code
books. Well, there's a code book that's
$246 in there from NFPA. I don't know if
that should go there or the building
codes, but I don't I don't know. But
it's a it's a big expense. $245,
>> I guess.
>> Uh let's see.
>> Senior programs is over
>> already.
Yeah. Already. because I mean we're what
75% through the year.
>> Mhm.
>> Roughly.
>> Is is there any way you can that
anymore?
>> Do what? Make it bigger?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, there you go.
>> Beautiful.
>> And go back and go back to the
um community center.
Harold, do you wanna you you raise your
hand?
>> I just wanted to ask Lisa, if the senior
programs is over, there's a liability
account for senior programs, senior
lunch, senior trips, doesn't the money
start coming out of that liability
account? I think the balance is around
8,000.
Um,
I'm looking what this is for
and I
Let me see. Hold on.
Move this line over.
New Year's Eve event,
Amazon,
Magic Flight, art classes, youth art
class, Andover Pizza, Dollar General.
That's what these items are. I'm um I
don't see any money coming in there the
rest of the year.
Um, you're saying this time of year is
when they might run low and that's when
you'd use that fund.
>> I that was the way it always was because
when we used to do the senior lunch and
we had to have fundraisers just to keep
that program going.
That was when the liability account was
established by the board of finance
because we were fundraising to keep
money in that account. So what's
happening now is when money is collected
at the lunches, money is collected for
trips or money is collected for
programs, the money is automatically
being deposited into the liability
account, not the general fund. So
>> I'm looking Yeah, I'm looking for that
account right now in the funds. Um lunch
trips, senior trips.
>> Well, I I don't know. It used to just be
the senior lunch liability account, but
now from what I understand, Tess said
that now it's the senior lunch program.
>> Senior lunch seems to have $5,000 and
the senior trips only has 745.
Programs has about 1,600. I have not
reconciled these. I'm just telling you
what's in there.
>> Is that the liability account or are
those the budget lines you're
discussing? No, those are the liability
counts.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So, when there's an overage on one line,
does do you start taking from that
account to
>> I would have Yeah. backtrack and see
what was done before and what we want to
do moving forward because I haven't
touched any of these funds and done any
transfers yet.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> There have been any additions to those
funds lately, Lisa? Can you check that?
>> Hold on. Let me see.
Go back.
All right. Change your trips. Hold on.
Trips. Doesn't look like it. Um, let me
go into
Where'd it go? Hold on. Did it kick me
out? Hold on.
No, it kicked me out. Let me go back in
to the report
balance sheet by class.
All right,
back over.
All right, lunch.
>> Lunch.
Um, lunch has some.
Let's see.
Yeah, lunch has deposits, but let's see.
December, one in February, one in
December,
and then it goes back to another one in
December.
But there's been three three items that
have been charged to it. Like Georgina's
restaurant has been charged to it.
Um
>> Tony
>> I imagine
>> how much money was put into it those two
months
>> though December and February
>> let's see December was 450
another December was 2580 and another in
February was 859
>> thank you
>> I mean here's the upshot looking at this
if you look at the bottom line.
>> Yeah,
>> they're half expended. So, it seems to
me that while this could be tightened up
next year,
>> give test a full year to sort everything
out, but right now I don't think we're
tracking where we're going to have a
problem.
>> Ag.
Yeah. Okay.
>> I just call out and I have Yeah. Can I
just ask one more question and then we
can move on?
>> Go. When you say um when there's when
you say there's money funded, money
comes in, where does it come from? Is
that from people that pay for the
lunches or the lunches?
>> Five bucks ahead, right?
>> Well, I thought the other stuff like
Carol said, some of it they do
fundraising, I guess. I'm You might want
to ask Carol. Not the lunches, but like
I don't know, the trips or or I'm not
sure.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't know.
I know they did one they did one
fundraiser um
>> like a craft fair for Christmas, but
they they do charge for programs and
they do charge for trips. So, um I
believe that is some of the money that's
going in there too, what they're
collecting from the seniors or the
participants for the different programs
and trips. And on top of that, um, part
of that goes to the instructors like the
yoga.
>> So part of that goes to the senior to
the, um, that budget, but part of it
also goes to the instructors,
>> right?
>> Is that right, Carol?
So, yes, some of the instructors do get
it, but I thought they took their money
first. Louise
>> and then the remainder was deposited.
>> But I don't know that that would be a
question for test.
>> It would be a reimbursement kind of a
net net out and then you
>> Yeah,
>> you add in whatever's left.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Okay, I'm good. We ready to move on?
>> Yeah,
>> we just scroll through. So, let's see.
Conservation membership.
Not worried about that.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Uh, legal professional
>> planning and Oh, wow. This whole
planning and zoning is over one.
>> Is this the thing where we had some
lawsuits gone?
that dog thing is
>> and and there was a lawsuit over the uh
the gravel bank by the gas station down
there.
>> Let's let's let's focus. So, this
planning and zoning one, the legal and
professional that is related to the
lawsuit that is going on with the um the
property next to the extraart
and hopefully we recover those dollars.
>> That would be nice.
>> We we recovered most of it, I think.
>> No. So most of it
>> if and Scott because you're on planning
the zoning if that's the case and and we
understand that that has to get to the
treasur's office at least the settlement
because I haven't seen the settlement
come across the administrator's desk
>> and we talked about it I think that most
of it was a recover not all of it but
most of it
>> great
>> and if that's the case then I'm just
telling everybody that then the
the treasurer needs to find the deposit
Right. I I would like to see that that
it was deposited back into some account
somewhere. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And applied accordingly.
>> So legal professional under uh the
reason I now that we talk about it and
looking at our budget for legal
professional under planning and zoning
is that lawsuit concluded?
Is that what you're telling me? is that
it's been adjudicated and we have a an
endpoint because,
excuse me, we have $10,000 in that line
for next year, for next fiscal year. I
want to make sure that's appropriate.
>> Lawsuits come up on, you know, planning
and zoning. Any attorneys?
>> Okay, let me just rephrase the question.
the the lawsuit that cost us so much
money this year.
>> It's done.
>> I I I think it is. I think it is. We had
a a meeting uh it was on the agenda at
some point and I it was finalized, but I
would like to find out what what did
happen to the money.
>> Okay. I I asked because of course I'm
looking at next year's budget and I'm
trying to figure out if $10,000 is an
appropriate amount to have there
budgeted as you see on this document
here that Liz is showing us. That's what
we budgeted last year. We doubled the
year before.
>> We'll we'll get you an answer. We'll get
you an answer on that lawsuit.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
>> That's all.
>> I think Rob, your your point is the
budget for next year is $10,000.
$10,000. That's right.
>> Is that enough money
>> going forward? Does
>> that's what I'm getting at. Thank you,
Bill.
>> So, and we also will get with the
planning and zoning agent and get you an
answer as to what he sees coming down
the road.
>> Thank you.
>> Y
>> um we'll take action on that.
Uh okay. Very good.
>> Okay. Writing a note.
Okay. Uh
going down. Looks like uh transfers
contingency were 93 95%.
>> Oh, I had a question. Lisa, Liz, if you
don't mind,
>> in the contingency line, we talked about
this I want to say two or three meetings
ago.
>> There was a $2,000
>> charge contingency. Did we ever run that
down? What the heck was that? That's the
abatement that to pay somebody that
lives in Colombia because they don't I
believe they don't have a tax bill here.
So
>> fire marshal sharing fire.
>> I just the issue was
>> should it be coming out of contingency?
I don't I don't think that's right.
>> That was a decision made by the previous
treasur and you're not wrong.
But it's probably really hard to find a
spot for that because we don't have a
budget line item for
>> there's not a line item for
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So,
in the past when contingency got touched
>> Mhm.
>> the board of finance was asked for it
for the $2,000 in this case
>> and and this never got to the board of
uh selectment either.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah,
>> I understand. If you look and if you
look at the previous audit,
there's a contingency item in there that
was not asked for and has since been the
treasurer just asked the auditor to make
an adjustment on that.
>> Okay.
>> Not asked for done by the previous
treasur.
>> From the standpoint of making this work,
um there it occurs to me there's a
couple possibilities. One is that the
the board of finance could choose at
this time to kind of bless that.
Um or we could say no, wait, that
doesn't belong there. Find another spot
for it.
That that's my gut reaction to it. Uh
contingency is supposed to be something
that is only released
if we're specifically asked for it,
given a justification, and then we vote
on it. It's $2,000. I know that that's
not a big deal. Uh I'm just trying to do
this, right?
So, does do other members of the board,
what do you guys think about this?
Because my gut reaction here is wait a
minute, that doesn't belong there.
If I can, Rob, I would ask you to make a
vote on this and do it because there's
no other line for it within the budget.
It's the first year that um we agreed to
give um uh Chief Mike the the money. Um
>> All right.
>> You know, I mean, I would just ask you I
just want to I want to do it right.
>> Not done correctly. Not done correctly
initially putting it into that account.
I would tell you that that I would have
put it I would have tried to put it you
know um and Lisa this is something you
know where are all of the other
transfers
>> done like all of the other abatements.
>> Yeah they're not even they're not even
in our budget to be really honest.
>> No because they're a tax credit.
>> So this is this is the thing but this
isn't really a truly a tax credit
because this is we're paying somebody
who's out of town. So, I guess my my
thought is twofold.
>> I am perfectly willing to bless 2,000
bucks to to get this done out of
contingency. That's fine by me. But what
I would also say is, okay, if that's the
going forward thing, do we need a $2,000
line item somewhere else in this budget
for 20 26?
>> Is that going to the fire to It's for
It's for Mike, right? Ronnie Mike.
Correct.
>> So, why don't we put it under the fire a
new line in the fire department's
budget?
>> Does that make sense?
>> And funded at 2,000
>> and funded at $2,000.
>> That's kind of what I'm thinking. I
mean, we don't have this properly
accounted for.
>> There's a fire marshall other.
>> It It's
you should do it just the way you said
it, but that would be for the next
budget year.
>> That' be for next budget season. So, I
think we we do that for next budget
season. for tonight. We take a vote to
approve the $2,000 and we get on to
other business that we have to do
tonight.
>> There.
Yep. So, I'll make the motion that we
approve the $2,000 for the contingency.
Obviously, $2,000 for Ron Mike uh to be
approved to come out of the contingency
fund.
We have a second.
>> Second.
>> All right. Liz seconds. Bill motions.
Liz seconds. So, you got to be Johnny on
the spot with that. Uh, any further
discussion? All right, let's go around
the horn. Uh, Nick,
>> sorry, what?
>> Yes.
>> Okay, thank you, Heather.
>> Yes,
>> Kim.
>> Louise.
>> Yes,
>> Kim. Oh, no. Sorry.
>> Liz,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> yes. me. Yes,
that is unless I miss somebody. 70.
Uh, so we've sorted that. I don't want
to see that again. Hopefully we uh
>> don't do it that way.
>> Make a note somewhere then that we add
>> we we really got to think about Yeah. If
if it's a if it's an ongoing expense, we
we need to line the budget for it.
>> Yep.
>> So, um, Lisa, if you could take a note
on that
and
If the $2,000 line,
>> yeah, we'll put it under
>> We should add something to the fire
department budget, I think.
>> Or under like Carol said, under other or
something. There's
>> it. And again, I'll defer to your
expertise, Lisa, but if that is a
payment
for sharing a fire marshal with another
town, you know, that's how we're doing
it. Seems to me it belongs in the fire
department's budget. We should fund it.
You know, we don't want to be
>> I mean, you could talk to Wall-E and
have him include it in his budget. Is
that what you're saying?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. For going forward. Yeah.
>> And just increase their budget by the
two.
>> And just increase their budget and we
we'll pay for it. It's fine. It just
doesn't belong under contingency is is
my point. Right.
>> So, this is the last page.
I will admit I don't understand this at
all. So if somebody could explain this
ordinary income line that
>> it's
>> says minus 1,000%.
>> Yeah, that can't be right.
>> Somebody please help me. Budget
145,000.
We've used 1 million. Uh, I think we got
we got I think we may have a spreadsheet
error here.
>> It's no spreadsheet error.
>> No, no, it's not. No, no. Oh, no.
>> What am I missing?
>> Um,
>> talk as you would to a to a particularly
stupid golden retriever.
No, it's um
where you really want to look at is that
bottom line that look at your total
expense and you're at 59%.
>> And then go down to the bottom and look
at your net income.
I can't see it because because the
picture is over
>> it's doing it's doing an overbudget of
$1.6 million.
>> No.
Well, it's
>> No, because it's it's over under.
>> So, if you look like on total expenses,
you're under right now by 5,000 in
expenditures. Your budget is 12 12
million. You've spent 7 million. You
have 5 million left. So, that doesn't
mean that negative sign doesn't mean
you're over. It means you're under.
>> But, but Okay.
>> But you see the percentages we're
looking at and why we're confused
>> when I see a thousand%. Yeah,
>> we're we're um we're underfunded.
Again, if you go up to the top in the
way that this this should work,
>> right?
>> This is this is a this is a financial
statement.
>> So, our our budgeted amount offsets our
revenue by $145,000.
Right now, it's just the budget number.
So, it's sitting there saying, "Hey,
>> you have a budget of X and this is what
you're expecting to collect in revenue."
When we built this budget last year, our
revenues were lower than our potential
expenses. We took money out of our
reserve fund or our general fund to
offset taxes. That's all this means.
Doesn't mean anything else other than
that. It's
>> you budgeted for revenues and that's X
and you budgeted for expenses and that's
why the the expenses outpace the
revenues,
>> right? I mean we still don't have half
of our ECS.
>> Yeah, but that's not in the budget.
That's not in the budget line. The
budget line is a set estimate of what is
going to happen in the current course of
the current year,
>> right?
Okay.
>> So, I let's just so I just clear. It's
the negative 14501, right?
>> No, it's the it's the last column that's
driving us nuts.
>> I can't see it.
>> Slide it. Slide it. Um
>> percent of budget.
to overbudget
>> that and that title in QuickBooks should
be over slash under because it it
shouldn't say over. It should say over
under depending at what point you're in
>> this right here.
>> I will look at the percentages with
Lisa. I will look at the percentages
with Lisa.
>> Okay.
>> Right. I what I said earlier what I said
earlier we're looking at a spreadsheet
error what could be happening here
>> is as Lisa points out
>> if it's supposed to be over or under
>> right
>> and it's calculating it like it's under
right
>> or sorry overexpended it looks horrible
but in what it's actually telling you is
we've got a bunch of money left yes and
and and this this document is very
>> lay person which I Ma'am, it's
confusing.
>> So, bear with us.
>> They've always done that with
QuickBooks. They've always titled that
column over under. If I can get in there
and change it. And I think Jeeoff, I
think we can. I would always just do
over under because it does totally
confuse people. They think they're over.
They're not. Most of the time they're
under and not over.
>> And and and and listen, just from a
board of finance perspective, you're
actually seeing the actual information
that's coming out of the accounting
package. In the past, you haven't always
seen that. You've seen uh a spreadsheet
that's been dumped out of there and then
manipulated.
>> Yeah. Right. The custom expenditure
report.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Never mind.
>> We need to we need to sit there and get
the data right out of the system so it's
clean and we need to there's there needs
to be some adjustments to this. But
yeah, you're under you're under spent
the town right now across everything and
>> 1.6 million
>> if you Yeah, 5 million. You're under
5.29,
but
a lot of that most of that ends up in uh
the educational lines. And what I would
do is slide up to the educational lines
for me just for one second because I
want to sit there and see something
because this is related to our uh
corrective action plan. and Lisa uh in
that office have some work to do. Um
I think we need a full
>> well the treasurer the previous like I
don't have enough already right Bill?
No, I mean really, we'll just pile it
on, Lisa. You know, I mean,
>> with no staff, no administrator.
>> We just sit there. So, right there.
Right there. Right. Back down a little
bit.
>> Education. There it is.
>> Reconciliation.
>> Can you make that a little bit bigger?
>> We have two two ECS payments still
coming, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. That's was my point is see you've
only got half of your income.
>> Yeah. Okay.
Do Do you see the number? This is where
there's a problem. There was a problem
with the previous treasur. Do you see
that that line? Um well, the voided
checks line and the reconciliation
discrepancies need to go. They they
should never be there as expenses and
listed there. But that's just a setup
problem. But uh Andover Elementary
School has received and this is where
the previous treasure was causing a
problem.
She was causing the problem because she
wasn't getting information and there was
an ability to reconcile this that's
really spent to the tune of I mean how
many months are we into this? We're into
this about
>> nine months I'd say nine months nine
months
>> 3.6 $3.6 million needs to be in that
line that says 1.28 28 and which will
decrease that underspend of $3 million
down significantly and then therefore
change that $5 million underbudget.
>> Sure.
>> Listen, this is this is this is a
situation of information and how it's
transferred and how it's put onto the
financial statements and this is not
right.
>> Correct.
>> I'm just I'm just telling you we're
going to fix that. But, uh, there's a
couple other things that have to be
dealt with before that. And Lisa's just
getting her feet on the ground. So, I
will tell you, we're not under budget by
$5 million.
>> We're we're we're spent accordingly,
right?
>> Our month of of April, May, and June
left to go.
>> And really, there's only one I believe
there's only one payment left to the
school for the year. So,
>> Okay.
>> Thank you for explaining that. Yeah,
this makes a lot of sense.
>> That's helpful. That's really helpful.
>> We pay them quarterly as because we
receive ECS quarterly, right? Oh, no. We
pay them 10 times.
>> 10 times a year.
>> Everybody monthly.
>> And
>> Yep.
>> There's there's um
>> Sorry, it's 10 times. That's right.
>> And and
listen, there's a lot of issues with
that. And there's a lot of issues with
understanding what the bank balance is
at that in that school account because
it's town money.
>> So there's a lot of things that should
happen related to that account and we'll
deal with them after we can get through
this budget.
>> I mean Okay. I mean it's it's also it's
education money but yes I understand
what you're saying.
>> Tax dollars used for education
>> plus ECS
>> plus and ECS is not part of that. No,
ECS is an income function to the town.
So, we don't tax the residents more than
we need to.
>> I understand that
>> which is an underfunded amount because
the state never and and there is some
issue and some potential that the town
the state will adjust that number but we
don't have that's not guaranteed.
>> We haven't gotten an adjustment in three
years.
>> 13 years.
>> Okay. 13.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
So everything everything keeps going
everything keeps going up but we don't
get an increase in our our state number.
>> That's right.
>> Um
I thought I thought there was a minor
adjustment three or four years ago, but
that's not the point. The point is it's
been about 2 million.
>> The adjustment the adjustment the
adjustment Rob was they were going to
decrease us.
>> Yeah.
>> Two years ago they were going to
decrease. I I recall that
>> fight
>> and the uh the the small town league,
whatever it's called, uh fought it
fought it out and yeah,
>> I recall. All right. Um can we um are we
good with this guys?
>> I Yeah, I I would like to move on
because
>> we got to make more progress. Um so that
was budget to actual
Does anybody have anything on the check
register
again? I plead that I just literally
didn't have the time to look at it.
>> I didn't even look at it either.
>> I didn't either.
>> All right. I hope it's fine. Um this
isn't and and frankly this isn't our
main uh
>> Yeah.
>> Right now we have other fish to fry.
Yeah, we can look through it and if and
bring items uh up if we need to.
Correct.
>> We can always email Lisa later.
>> Just email me. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> We'll just give her more work.
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
>> Pile it on. Why not? Um so that's check
register. Okay. So 5C is donation
request. I would move not move. I would
just suggest we move right on from that.
I don't think we're in no position to
deal with that right now.
uh ditto status of bathroom project. I
haven't heard anything further on it. Uh
and it's frankly we're dealing with the
budget right now. Um, yep,
>> I I would pass on that as well.
And that would get us to new business
budget discussion with BOS members which
you know we're sort of having already
but
I would suggest that we go back to our
spread our handy dandy spreadsheet here
and go back to our capital budget and
finish our discussion that we were
having earlier
vis some of these funds and how we are
addressing them this year. Now uh can
everybody remind me am I sharing my
screen right now or no? No, you're not.
>> All right. I'm going to share.
>> All right. We see this.
>> Yep.
>> Yes, we do.
>> Okay. Very good. So, this is the one
change we've made so far. We'll
highlight that puppy.
So,
the next
>> this one, right?
>> What?
>> We should revisit this one.
>> Which one?
>> The one you're on. Fire truck. Fire
engine.
>> Yeah. Fire department. Fire engine. This
is the one I would say we should talk
about. Here's the thing. The last thing
I want to do is put the fire department
in a decision or our town in a position
where we're short because we need a
piece of equipment. However, we have
purchased for the fire department in the
last few years quite a few
nice pieces new pieces of equipment. We
are
teeing up a purchase pending our board's
approval which CIP will bring to you or
I will bring to you or Wally will bring
to you um for a $65,000 compressor unit
that fills their air.
Um other than that we have the ongoing
lease payment for the truck which we've
discussed let's call it 125.
So, and we know from
looking at the funds, looking at the
audit. Oh, great. I have the wrong PDF
up. Hang on. Um, where we have 400 and
some odd thousand in there.
I would like or I would like to be
careful with this fund, but at the same
time, it's not clear to me that we need
to put 137 into it like clockwork.
>> Could you bring how much we have in that
fund right now?
>> All right. Hold on one minute, Bill. I
got to I got to pull up the thing again.
I apologize to everybody. I have to find
the email again where um Lisa sent it to
me. Give me a moment.
There it is.
Come on, baby.
Let's get this thing maximized.
>> You You could even leave them split
window like that. Okay. I I look my
technical competence is what it is.
>> That's fine. So this year, okay, so
Lisa, let's let's talk about this a
little bit because this came up before
and I'm not 100% sure. I know they sold
something, but fire asset sale 65,000
sale of asset of asset added from audit.
I don't recall. I know that they sell
their old equipment when they can.
Um, I just want to make sure this is a
real figure that actually
made it in cash into this account. Is
that your understanding?
>> It is an auditor entry. I think Jeff
said he wanted to check on that, but um
I'm just telling you that's how they got
their audit figure. They had to add that
65 in to get that 435. That was in their
transactions for the year. So that's
where that 435700 came from and that's
how I balanced it.
>> I don't know how Jeff feels about that.
>> So here's my take. My my gut take is
maybe we treat this like it's really 350
like we to be safe, right? We kind of
ignore it and we go with this this
figure here, right?
85.
>> Okay. So, if you're saying 3.48 and we
have the payment of 125, is it plus they
want the $64,000 which hasn't been
approved yet together, we could cut back
on the 137 because we still got plenty
of money at 358 to pay for everything.
We don't necessarily have to add another
$137.
>> They will not run out of money. They
will, you know, we're looking at about a
>> uh expenditure in this budget year.
Jeff, you had
>> Yeah, I do. Two things.
The sale is related to the ambulance.
>> That's why I remember
>> that the fire department purchased
utilizing the funding from the calls
that are made. So, the town did not pay
for the new ambulance, but the fire
department, because it is a town asset,
the fire department asked if they could
sell it, and I believe they only got
like five grand for it. I don't believe
they got $65,000 for that. So, that's an
audit adjustment that has to be
determined from our side.
The other thing that you guys have to
watch related to the fire department is
everything that the fire department does
eventually
costs a lot of money.
>> So if you're going to cut that because
you're trying to find money, you're
going to you're going to I mean what we
have attempted to do over the last 10
years and Rob, as long as you've been on
that board, we've been trying to put the
money into that account to sit there and
offset the things that the fire
department needs to protect us. So, I
would I would tell you I I didn't have a
problem with you doing the the cut to
the
uh building fund,
>> but I am going to tell you I think you
guys should think long and hard about
what you cut from the fire department's
budget because their their things that
they need are really expensive.
>> And you're not going to want to see them
come and do a $500,000 transaction all
in one year because we'll never get
>> that's also a savings account.
I fully agree with that. What I would
say is from
last CIP meeting talking to Wall-E
talking my understanding about where
they are in terms of their equipment.
A minor adjustment might not be so bad.
I am not at all suggesting that we zero
this out. Mhm.
>> I'm not at all suggesting that we should
look at this fund like it's some sort of
uh luxury. Not at all. Um we know from
past experience that the next time we
need a fire truck, whenever that may
come, it's a million-dollar piece of
equipment. So, we have to be careful.
By no means am I suggesting we we we
hack and slash here. I'm simply saying
that we could conceivably
we've been doing um 137 like clockwork
for a couple of years, right? One well
125 then we went up to 137,
right? I'm just saying we could look at
a small cut here. Nothing dramatic.
And then we come back next year. We talk
to Wally, we we talk about their capital
plan. That's all I'm looking for a
little savings. I'm not expecting this,
you know, I I would never suggest that
we zero it out.
>> So like the fire truck, if we had a
really large expenditure, it would be
paid for
>> over like the firetruck 10 years, right?
You'd make payments, you would lease
over 10 years.
>> That So it's not like you're going to be
asked to have a million dollars on hand
to buy a new truck. The flip side to
that,
the original plan for that firet truck
originally back when we were saving
money for it many years ago was we were
going to buy it and it was projected to
cost threequarters of a million dollars.
Then some things happened
and all of a sudden it was a million
bucks and we didn't have it so we leased
it. But the original plan was to buy it
outright, to save up the money and buy
it outright. And we were almost there.
We could probably have gotten there if
it was 3/4 of a million, but it didn't
work out that way and we just had to
lease it.
The thing about leasing, as you know, is
it throws off a cost
for the, you know,
>> interest
>> throws off interest cost. So ideally,
like in a perfect world, if we had
unlimited resources, I mean, we'd buy
everything instead of leasing stuff or
or or doing any sort of financing.
I would love if we as a town had were
rolling in money and could just avoid
that sort of thing. I don't know. Here's
the thing. I don't think they have a
really major piece of equipment coming
one, two years from now, even three,
threeish.
Well, they were talking about a
particular piece of equipment. Um, I
forget the details uh at the CIP
meeting, but right now they we we've
sorted out their main truck, right?
Their their their big rescue truck.
We've sorted out their gear, their their
air gear,
>> breathing apparatus.
>> Their breathing apparatus. Thank you.
And we're gonna sort out I believe we
have to pass it their compressor.
>> I I just think it's possible. And again,
I'm not asking I would not propose a
major cut here. I would say could we do
100 instead of 137.
Not not put no money in, right? just put
a little less this one year to to get us
through this. So, that's my take, guys.
Um I I have no intention. I I would
never want to short the fire department
and I know that we need to continue to
save money. And the thing is this money
here it's it it will be it will drop the
fund balance between this year and next
simply because of if I if we if we went
with that proposal
it we would drop it anyway if we did 137
because we have 125ish to pay for the
truck and we got 65ish coming. Right. So
we know we have a net outlay if we
approve that of what 190. Am I doing my
math right? So, you know,
it's not ideal,
but you know, neither was the cut we
made last year to the road fund or
neither is this. Um, so that's just my
take. I' I'd be I'd be love I'd love to
hear from other people. I've been
talking too much. So, what are other
members of the board, Liz, what do you
think? Uh, Tim, Louise, you know, speak
up. Uh Heather, Nick, anybody tell me
what you think here because my gut is we
could survive a small cut here.
>> I'm not in favor of the cup.
>> Okay.
>> I'm not either.
>> I'd prefer not to do with that either.
>> I prefer not to either.
>> But yes, I hear you.
>> I prefer not to.
>> I feel like we're being pushed. We're
being pushed against the wall to make um
some cuts to serious uh services
>> and I'm comfortable with it.
>> Well, I mean this all right ju just to
clarify. I mean this is capital but yes
I hear what you're saying.
>> Do we have
>> this is important stuff.
>> Do we have to go to 100? I mean
>> we don't have to go to 100. We can look
this is this was just me noodling
around. Let's just delete this. I just,
you know,
>> that was my
>> play around with it. Um, we could do any
number. Look, flat out. We can do any
number here. That's in our power. We
have done in the past, as you can see.
We used to do 125.
We upped it to 137. I believe this here
was in response to buying the truck.
Um,
obviously this
>> this was what we were putting in when we
thought we were going to be able to buy
the truck and then we went up to this to
account for the lease payment. So
>> So if we put in 125, but you're saying
we're going to have 190 coming out.
>> Yes. So we would have a net outlay. So
>> a net outlay. Yeah.
>> We would we would be negative on the on
the year. So, forget this number for a
second cuz we're not sure about this
number. Let's look at this number. 350,
right? 348.
So, if you put in 100 or I'm going to
use round numbers, not not because this
is the right number. If you put in 100,
you're at 448, right? And then
we know we got 125,
we got 190 coming out.
So, you're at, you know, 338.
you'd still have 338 in there. The
problem is you're going backwards.
You're you're instead of building up
this fund,
you're depleting it. And that's not
great. Obviously,
>> by a little bit,
>> you know,
>> by a little bit for one year
>> by a little bit. Not a huge amount, a
little bit. The other thing we haven't
talked about yet, by the way, is
unassigned fund balance. But let let's
stick with this for a moment.
>> If people are not comfortable with this,
sorry, Liz, were you did you have a
comment?
>> I think I think it was me. So,
>> that's okay. If you put in 125 and then
the 65 that we're not sure about in the
fund thing, that would get you back up
to 190, right? If the 65 comes in.
>> That's right.
>> No, the 65 that I've been talking about
is an expenditure that we have not yet
been asked for, but it's coming down the
pike from from the capital improvement
committee. I just had the meeting last
week. Um
>> I meant the 65 in your in the other
spreadsheet you have that we're talking
>> Sorry. Sorry. So, oh, this
>> I am not sure. I honestly I don't fully
understand this number. And Jeff's
right. Jeff was right to call this out
as I don't know about that number.
>> Okay.
>> This my recollection is similar to
Jeff's in that when they go to sell an
old piece of equipment, they tend to get
bup guess for it. You know, he said like
$5,000, something like that. So, I'm not
quite sure what the auditor is doing
with this and I wouldn't trust it.
That's why
>> I suggest our board look at this number.
>> Yeah, that's what I was thinking you
said before, but I was thinking, oh, 125
plus if that 65 is real, get you back to
190, which is
>> the 65. If this was real, it cancels out
the compressor project, which would be
great,
but I don't I don't know about that. The
thing is, look, at the end of the day,
we could put, just to be clear, and I'm
not suggesting this course of action, we
could put zero in this fund and we'd
survive next year. the problem would
become later. Uh we're not planning
properly, the account gets too low and
then we need a major piece of equipment
and now we're in trouble. So that's the
issue. Um
we are not in a situation where we have
to load money into this fund for them to
survive the next fiscal year. That isn't
>> the case.
>> But we need to
keep funding it properly. Otherwise,
we're going to get behind and we're
going to be in trouble. So, my take on
on this was just we either consider a
small decrease to what we load in or we
roll with the 137 as usual, we leave it
as it is. I you know, I could I can make
an argument either way here, guys. I
really could.
>> So, I
I was thinking the same thing as you
earlier.
um cutting it to 100, taking the 37,000
out. I still think that's very doable,
very livable, but we had Heather propose
cutting it back to 125.
Um so I would I would make the motion
that we cut it from 137 to 135. Line
305908,
fire engine fund tanker. And um
125 or 135 We we cut it back from 137 to
125.
>> Thank you. You I think you had said 135
before. That's all. I want to make sure
I had it right. So that's the motion on
the floor.
Do we have a second on that?
>> I'll second it.
>> Okay. Heather second. So bill motions we
reduce fire equipment engine fund engine
fund to load in to 125 from 137. Heather
seconds it further discussion. I feel
like we talked about it a lot but if
anybody has anything further please
speak now or forever hold your peace.
All right. Um right then Liz.
>> Don't start with me.
>> Okay. I won't start with you. I will you
know what? I'll move on. That's fine. Um
how about Kim? No.
>> Kim's a no. Fair enough. Nick.
>> I'll say yes.
>> Nick's a yes.
Okay, Louise.
>> Uh, no.
>> That's what I thought. Okay. Um, so two
nos, one. All right. Very good, Bill.
>> Yes.
Um, very good. Who am I missing?
>> Me. I myself
>> Liz and me. But that's only six. So I
missed somebody. Nick, did I get you? I
got you.
>> Did you get Heather?
>> No.
>> Heather.
>> Uh, yes.
>> Heather's a yes. Okay.
>> I'm going to be a no.
>> Liz is a no. Fair enough.
Wow.
All right. I'll be the big I'll I'll put
my big boy pants on and I'm going to
vote yes.
That puts us
four to three.
Me, Bill, Nick, and I believe Heather.
>> Yes.
>> Opposed Liz Louise Kemp.
We're going to put this to 125. And
again, guys, we can revisit this. We,
you know, I I am I don't love this cut.
I It's very much how I felt about last
year when we cut the road improvement
fund. I don't love it. I don't love it
at all. So, believe me when I tell you
I'm not weded to this, but uh we've done
it for now. Okay.
Public Equipment Fund. I looked at this
chart. I just don't think there's a ton
of money in there. Um
I don't there's a lot to find here.
And there's some note stuff here that I
don't fully understand. Lisa,
so I I I be cautious with this fund.
Now, we typically have put in, let's go
back to this.
Um, we've been putting in 125. That's a
fair chunk, but we've been putting in
like clockwork every year, which I
assume is therefore being spent.
So,
this wasn't on my radar as one to look
at a cut or find money.
>> Is Eric there?
>> Eric?
>> He was
>> He was And I got to double check.
>> But that that one is a really like What
are you going to do? You got a loan
>> Yeah,
>> it's not even that. You just have a loan
payment.
>> Well, oh, this is for the truck, right?
Okay.
>> Truck.
>> Yep. Fair enough.
road improvement. You know, we cut it
down last year.
>> I don't want to cut it more. Anybody
disagree with me? You know, it's time to
speak up. But I
>> No, I don't want to cut it.
>> We just leave it. I I think we just
leave it. And I mean, I in a perfect
world, I put us back here.
>> Perfect world, I would too. But this
isn't put it back up.
>> All the all the petroleum things, road,
which is all petroleum are going up. uh
you know 25% already so
>> you got to leave it. Yes.
>> Maybe we want to raise it. Maybe we want
to raise it.
>> 25% already.
>> You know, you could make that you could
make that case. I mean it's not like we
wouldn't spend it,
>> right?
>> Uh we of course everything we put in
this fund I think
>> ultimately is going to get spent. Um,
well, I mean, I if people feel strongly
better, we can we can move on it. I
would just say
I I'm trying to find dollars
and we survive with this. I don't think
we're falling dramatically behind our
plan. I think we're doing still doing
good progress. I think we can survive
this to leave it at 385. But if if if
people disagree and you want to make a
motion to increase this, hey, let's
entertain it. Now is the time.
Uh what did I just hear?
>> Sorry, guys. I I'm trying to keep track.
I'm sharing my screen and I'm like, am I
getting
I don't see anything. All right. So
if I if I'm hearing none, we we can move
on. True removal. This I think is we've
made such good work with this. The only
thing I would say
where is it? Tree removal.
I'm not quite sure.
I don't you know we have apparently
we've got
off TBD 14K. I don't know what that
means. So, we've got a little money in
there maybe, but we have the spring
coming up.
We've typically spent it. We spent it
well. Yeah,
>> there was. Yeah, Eric has come in and
asked if there's money left in for this
year. So, I think he's got plans for
that this year. But also, I haven't
totally understood it yet, but there was
something between the transfer station
didn't have money and the trees did. So,
they use some tree money for the
transfer station. So, that's why I'm
questioning that because it looks like
there's a $14,000 transfer between the
two accounts
that they did.
I don't I'm not sure. So that's why
>> down below in the transfer station you
have a negative balance
>> on
>> yeah I see that
>> PDF
>> there's there was something that
occurred between those two accounts
>> like 14,000 was borrowed from
>> I remember we had a problem we had
something we had to deal with the
transfer station I remember that but I
don't remember the details
>> there was something that Eric had
explained to me I guess he's off the
call now that and I don't know if this
costs money maybe Jeff you know or
someone else on the board of selectman,
but he told me today that they've opened
up an area in the brush area for people
to be able to come in and cut trees that
are picked up off the road.
>> And I'm just wondering, I know he had to
set up an area with some kind of blocks
and some chips, and I'm just wondering,
did that cost us money to set that area
up where
>> No, not at all. No,
>> not at all. Okay.
And it's a nice area.
>> I'm sure it is. I might be down here.
>> It looks really good. If you need if you
need wood, it was a Jeff Murray
>> Jeff Murray brought that up and he
wanted to get it done and Eric did a
great job and got it set up ready to go.
>> Beautiful.
>> I just wasn't sure if that was some
expense around that. That's all I was
asking.
>> Yeah.
So,
others can chime in. My gut take on the
tree removal fund is there's not a lot
of money to find here. Uh I I would
leave it at most
at most if we're looking for a cut, you
know, 40,000 instead of 50 or something
like that. But we need this money. This
has been I' I've lived in this town
since ' 07.
We went through a stretch in 2011, 2012,
2013 where literally every storm that
came through, we'd lose power. All this
stuff had happened. And I don't know if
you've noticed, but it's been
dramatically better
since we have been working and
partnering with Eversource.
Like, it's it's some of the I think best
bang for the buck we've we've done. So,
>> you don't want to change that?
>> Yeah, I don't think we should change it.
I'll just change it. I'm gonna just
chime in a little bit here. One of the
things you guys asked me to talk to Eric
about,
>> yes,
>> was the overtime, not for snow removal,
but just regular overtime. And what he
said was, and it happened here on Bear
Swamp Road on Saturday. A large tree,
and I mean a large dead tree fell across
the road. So, two guys on Saturday were
paid overtime to come up and clean that
up. And what he said was is there are
things like that that happen during
storms,
>> trees fall and you know uh other things
happen where you have construction crews
working and they work later than our
town crew does and we have to pay them
overtime to be on the job where another
construction you know company is working
in the town. So he said that is what
that overtime is there. They're always
called out during storms to clean up the
roads and help with, you know, uh, road
work that we're on the site when there's
another contractor and we have to be on
the site longer than what they normally
work because these construction
companies work longer than they do. So,
it has nothing to do with snow removal.
It has to do with
things like what I just described.
>> And and that's why it's a separate line.
That makes sense.
>> That's a good explanation.
>> I think it's a pretty good explanation.
Yeah. Did like what did that one day
cost? Does it is there
>> He didn't tell me. I would say there was
probably there was two men he told me
and I would say there was almost two
hours that the crew was up there. I
don't know what that relates to, but
>> on the weekend they get paid
>> twice as much or something.
>> Right.
>> Time and a half or double time? I don't
know.
>> No, no, they get paid. They don't come
in for just two hours. They come in for
four hours. I think
>> Saturday Saturday is time and a half and
Sunday is double time.
>> Oh, that's good to know.
>> There's a minimum that they they could
get paid. Also,
>> we also had um one of the public works
employees come in this weekend to assist
at the transfer station.
>> Oh, so that would be over time.
>> What happens? Yep.
>> Okay.
>> So, I I think there's a good explanation
for the I think it was 12 or 13,000.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
And and just if I could just throw out
the other call I made because we're
going through this item these items here
right now just to let you know was a
large increase in the um the uh budget
for meals. Uh the I talked to um
>> Oh, for the elections.
>> Yeah, I talked to what's your name? I'm
having a mental moment here. Uh somebody
help me out. The
>> Yes,
>> Linda Derek. And it's
>> Linda Derek. Thank you. And it's her
birthday today if anyone.
>> And it's her birthday today, too. You're
absolutely right. She told me that
today. Yeah. So, I talked to Linda Derek
this morning and she said basically
because we'll have two primaries, a
Republican and Democratic primary plus
the election plus the, you know, uh,
paper ballots that come in and the extra
days that people have to vote and all
the stuff. She goes, they've had to hire
a lot more people and they work a lot
more hours than they used to. And that's
why the budget and the cost of food has
gone up and that's why that budget line
has grown so much. And it seemed to make
sense what she was saying to me there
too.
>> Yeah. I mean I I sort of expected that
answer but thanks for running that down
Bill.
>> Yeah.
>> I I I figured I mean with the midterm
year and you know the changes to uh
election law you know in terms of early
voting and everything like that,
>> right?
>> You figure you figure it's gonna go up.
um trying to trying to re to to thank
you for all of that. By the way, trying
to focus back on our capital budget
here.
There's one other I mean I look at all
this and the rest of these
uh I don't really we were at tree and we
agreed. This one we just we talked about
it. We need frankly if I could put half
a million in there I'd do it. So, I
don't want to touch that
>> building maintenance fund. I was looking
at the chart here, we don't have a lot
in there. There's an increase.
>> We're
sorry.
>> It's not that big. Actually, we we if
you look at this before, we put in we
used to put $100,000 in here. We we must
have cut this last year and Lisa left it
and maybe Boris Suckman left it at
33,000.
Um, if you look at
building maintenance, this is where it
is here.
>> Yeah,
>> there's not a ton of money in here.
>> And there's some notes.
>> Um, so
my take would be if anything, I mean, I
would leave it alone. If anything, you
could talk about whether we need to at
some point try to pump this back up. I I
would only say that the amount of work
that we've done on the town building,
you know, all the air conditioning, a
lot of electrical upgrades,
uh the fire department had the kitchen
upgrade. I I think our town buildings,
I'm not saying they don't need money,
but I think in a year like this, leaving
it at 33 would be appropriate, not
increasing it this year.
>> Yeah. I mean, my take too is, you know,
this is just isn't the year to try to
get back here. Maybe maybe in another
year, but not this one. But there's been
a ton of work done in the library. There
was a ton of work done, you know, town,
like I said, the electrical system was
upgraded. I think we had new gas tanks
put in. We had the air conditioners put
in the town hall,
>> the the mini splits. Yeah.
>> I think we've done a lot of work and
we're in pretty good shape right now.
So, my opinion would be that 33 is
probably okay for now.
>> I I I hope so.
>> If you're looking out far right, all
those electric things are are there.
There was an abandoned well fill. There
was an extended light um at the library.
There was OSHA hearing mechanism that
was done. Generator switch carbon tank
at the firehouse. Ebike
>> ebike.
>> Yep. Ever source energy project.
>> Yeah. There was a lot of electric stuff.
>> These are all things that were done this
already done that don't
>> they're done.
>> Yep.
>> Which gets you down to this number here.
So, yeah. I mean, I think we're okay
personally, but if there are other
members of the board who disagree,
please speak up.
>> When do you guys think that you're going
to be bringing these funds back to
normal?
>> When we have a year where it's feasible,
>> uh, what year do you think that's going
to be?
>> I don't know.
>> Well, this is what you said to us,
Scott. This is what the Boris Lechman
sent to us was 33.
>> Wait, wait, hang on, hang on. So one of
the things I'd say Scott is look
if if this first of all if this funding
from 2425 this 100,000 if this is the
appropriate level that we really need
then I guess what I would ask is that
the board of select win
talk to us about that
explain that
and get us and and you know get us
comfortable with that and in a year
where we're not facing
the sort of thing we're facing this
year, maybe it's next year, maybe it's
the year after,
then I personally like again I'm a big
fan of saving money up
for the things that we need to spend. I
I would be happy to increase this number
just right now without absent a clear
flashing red need. I would say that
>> they need I'll tell you
>> that public work roof is going to cost
all the all the money that you have left
in there.
>> That's true. We we didn't really think
about that. That's true.
>> I think he told us $27,000 was the quote
he had. Correct, Scott?
>> More than that.
>> What was it?
>> $27,000 is what Eric told us. And he
also told us he needs was it $12,000 for
that new meter
>> on the gas tank? I forget. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Correct.
>> So that's that's uh you know and that's
if they that I think he said that 27 was
just the I'm not sure. I think he said
just the shingles. There may be other
plywood that might have to be changed.
>> The roof has to be redone.
>> Yeah. The boards may have to all be
replaced under the shingles. All that
stuff. Yeah.
>> I'm not sure if that was just shingles
or if that included any of that. Kim,
>> I think it included the project, but you
never know. Stuff is very expensive.
>> So, I I guess
>> So, what was the what was the number for
the roof again?
>> 27,000. Eric had told us last
>> He got that he got that quote, whatever
it was. I don't know how long ago, but
it was one person. He's got to get more
quotes.
>> Okay.
>> And that did not include anything
underneath the shingles.
>> I'm just trying to ballpark this. So
that was the
>> $12,000 for the diesel. Uh
>> for the diesel. Uh
>> yeah. So you need way over what you
have.
>> Yeah.
>> That's 39.
>> So why didn't you guys give us a higher
budget?
>> Yeah. Well,
>> it's your budget.
>> I know. You know, I look guys, if we
want to make this 40, give us a little
wiggle. I I don't mind. Um, I don't know
if we can go back to 100. Like this
year, this is a tough year. 40, 45. What
do you think?
>> Can we push it up to 55?
>> I I think we're going to need at least
50.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. I hate to say it this year,
but you know, they need bad.
>> Let's Let's make a motion. I mean, I I I
I hear what everybody's saying and it
makes sense. So, let's take action. Um,
so it's going to be how much for the
roof plus everything? 33,00.
>> It's at least 27,000 for the roof. I
think he said 39
>> 39 and we have 29
>> cuz it was cuz it was 27 and there was a
$12,000, right?
>> Other expenditures
>> that diesel management.
>> This is there's a there's a maintenance
fund. You're never going to know what
happens if the library has a problem
with the system and they can't fund
raise, which the library does a great
job. We're going to sit there and do
that work to the building. If the town
offices have a problem, it's a
maintenance fund.
>> So, you're trying
>> I would uh make a motion to raise the
number to 50,000.
>> I would second that.
>> I'm sorry. What was the number, Bill?
>> 50,000.
All right. And um sorry, second was Kim.
>> Yes, it was. Thanks, Rob.
>> Yep. Okay. So, we've got a motion on the
floor from Bill to raise the building
equipment building maintenance fund.
Sorry. Line item from 33,000 to 50K.
Uh motion by Bill, second by Kim. Any
further discussion from the board?
Once going twice. Great.
Okay.
Let's take it. Uh, Bill, what's your
vote?
>> Yes.
>> Bill, vote yes. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Yes. Okay, Heather.
>> Um,
>> uh, yes, I guess.
>> Yes, you guess. Okay, very good. Uh, no
problem. Kim,
>> yes.
>> Louise,
>> I'd say yes. Nick,
>> yes.
>> And I will I will also vote yes. Go
ahead. Let's let's let's do this. We got
to fund this properly. Okay. So,
>> did you get Liz? I'm sorry. For some
reason, I missed.
>> Yeah. I thought I got Liz. Did you get
Liz?
>> Yep.
>> Liz, I'm sorry.
>> I got you. Yeah.
>> So, it's a seven. It's a 70 vote. Um, so
we raised that. Actually, I should write
I should write this down from so I know
what the heck we
>> three. Yeah.
>> Yeah, that's why I just This is for my
own notification, guys. Like, this isn't
the main spreadsheet. Lisa's got the the
big one.
Okay, so the last thing here really that
we're talking about is the Open Space
Fund. Now, this for the newer members of
our our board, in case you're not aware
of what this fund does, I'll give you a
very short spiel. I hope the idea here
is that sometimes,
and it's unpredictable, the town might
have the opportunity to purchase a piece
of property that pops up for sale. Uh
maybe it's along the the the trail,
maybe it's somewhere that we can enhance
our town properties, etc. And in the
past,
we had an issue where we had a piece of
property come up and we had no funding
mechanism to purchase that property. So
the idea is that we put aside money
every year. We build up this fund. Let's
find it.
>> How much is in it?
>> Open space. Here it is. According
what is that? Doesn't seem right.
>> Cap in audit.
>> That doesn't seem quite right. This is
off.
I thought we had more in there.
>> Well,
>> I thought we had a couple hundred grand
in there.
>> Yep. And and like it says to be
determined because it doesn't make any
sense what's in there.
>> Um
>> Okay.
>> What's in there?
>> Because the audit says something else,
right? I don't a
>> bank balance. The bank balance says that
also. So, there's funds in the bank, but
in QuickBooks,
>> reserve balance here. Yeah.
>> What does it say? What does it say we
have, Lisa? In the bank, in the bank it
says we have 234,000. In QuickBooks, it
says we have 41,000.
>> How can that be?
>> But the auditors say there's 276,000.
So, that is to be determined. I could
not get it all straightened out. I could
just tell you what's in the bank and
what the auditor said, but I've got to
get it straight in QuickBooks and I I
it's tangled. So,
>> say the 276 is the good number. So my
gut reaction is that, you know, given
the purpose of this fund, if we did have
276, you had 25, you're you're at about
300. That's still not
a ton of money lying around.
>> Uh
I this request is this is this is an
increase request. I assume this is
something Boris Lechman
>> this is why it's highlighted
>> that Boris Lechman increased this
request last year we did 10 earlier as
you could see we did 50 and then earlier
than that we did nothing so you know
it's kind of what we feel we can do in a
given year I hate the idea
of not having enough money in in a
dedicated fund such that we are unable
to take advantage of something that
would really benefit benefit the town.
So, personally, and $25,000 is not the
thing that's breaking this budget, I
would go for it, but there's a case to
be made here that this is less a need
and more want.
Um, so I'll throw that out for
discussion. What do y'all think?
>> I'm fine with leaving it because is I'm
fine with leaving it, too.
>> I'm fine as well.
I'm fine with it.
>> All right.
>> Ditto for me.
>> Okay. Well, that sounds like we don't
need a motion. Um, okay. So, now there's
one last thing we need to talk about.
And that is
Come on. Where's the Why is this not
going to the second page? Hang. Hold on.
There. There we go. So, now we have
another fund. Well, not fund. We have
the unassigned fund balance, our
savings,
which as I remember from the audit, we
had about $2.1
million
built up in that.
Now, this is another thing that I am lo
to touch. However,
the idea the last time we talked about
where we stood
with our sort of quote unquote savings
visav our operational budget.
Eric, I don't know if you guys how many
of you remember this, but Eric was
talking to us and said,
well, based on the last audit figures,
which of course at this point is now a
year or two ago, um we were at 13.4 4
something like that percent and that the
ideal level
was 2 12ths right two months out of the
year which is one you know one sixth
which is 16.67
but he also said during that
conversation
that based on the kind of town we are
and our exposures
it may be just fine if we're under that
a little bit. you know, we don't have
we're not sitting in a flood plane,
we're not on the coast, that kind of
thing. So, the thing is, depending on
what we do with our budget, of course,
the amount
that we have in savings and what the
percentage is of our total approved
budget is a moving target. If we have,
and by the way, this number here, if
you're watching, you know, this isn't
updated. I have to update this after the
changes we just made, but this is close.
If we have a $13.7 million budget and we
have $2.1 million
in savings, that's 15.3%.
In the past,
including, by the way, last year,
one of the ways that we cushioned the
blow of of our taxation was we took
money from fund balance.
I am loathed to take much. However,
given the difficulty we face, which is
this,
I want to suggest to the board that we
talk about the possibility of using at
least a little bit of that built because
that fund balance has been building.
We've been doing a great job saving up
and it may be appropriate in this
instance to use a little bit of it to
just
push in the blow. Um, these numbers, by
the way, are just me noodling around.
Let me get rid of those. We're looking
at a 9.6%
tax increase.
If we can find,
you know, we we've just talked about in
our capital budget, we've found
70 62.
Well, not really because we increased
this
So,
um,
at the end of the day, we found $30,000
in cuts.
Um, and we we've had some things that
have gone up as we discussed earlier
with the healthc care and everything
like that.
If we want to get this number, you have
to think about our budget. Last year, we
raised by taxation just about $10
million. So, you got to think about it
this way.
every $100,000
is 1%.
So if you want to get this number down,
whatever your number is in your head,
that's the right number,
right? It's multiples of 100,000. If you
want to get down to 5%, you need to find
46 4,000, sorry, $460,000
somewhere,
which we have not yet found.
I personally would not suggest to the
board that we take $460,000 from fund
balance. I think that's wildly
excessive.
However, I think we could consider
taking a hundred or two
just to cushion the blow a little bit
and again like last year try to make it
a little more palatable. It will still
not get us
where I think any of us would really
like to comfortably be, but it
>> this is the thing. Um,
we all know that this isn't going to
pass.
>> Yep. Pretty much
>> there. There's no way this town's going
to vote a 9.6% increase. That's not
going to happen. So,
>> we can we can put forward this budget
and know that when it doesn't pass,
>> there's probably going to be education
cuts. And where those education cuts get
us, how much more? So, we could take it
now or we could take it later. But at
some point, the town's going to come
back and say, "We're not going to prove
9.6. 6. I've lived in this town for 42
years. It ain't going to happen.
>> So, I mean, we can take later, but at
some point, we're going to be finding
more money in this budget.
>> Oh, I know.
>> I agree, Bill.
>> I don't mean Go ahead. Go ahead. Go
ahead.
>> I want to say I agree with you, Bill.
And I don't think we should be trying to
cushion the blow ourselves
when AES is asking for an 11% increase
and they
completely
um denied any opportunity to go down. So
I would be against doing anything to
cushion the blow. I say
>> Oh, I see. Let's send the budget
getting.
>> Let's send Let's send it to the budget.
Let's send it and let the taxpayers say
what they want.
>> We could Yeah, I'm fine with that, too.
I'm just saying at some point though,
let's just say we got, you know,
bifocated and we recommended a 7.5%
increase for the school. So, say we just
I'm just making numbers up, Liz.
>> Yep.
>> Say we come back and we cut the school
budget to 7.5%. Let's just say we get to
that. How much is still left that we're
going to ask the town for an increase?
Will they even pass it? If we cut the
school budget to 7.5, will they even
pass that?
>> We do make some cuts. Okay.
>> You know what I'm saying? Because it's
still going to be a big increase.
>> Possibly not, Bill.
>> That's what I'm saying. So, do we just
>> hang on to this money for later and take
it out later or use it later? I don't
know. I'm just I'm just throwing things
out there.
>> I agree. I don't think I don't think we
should use fund balance yet because
>> I agree. You're not even giving the
school the opportunity to,
you know, show a good faith effort to
try and come in a little lower.
>> Rob, Rob, in your spreadsheet there, can
you just pretend that Andover Elementary
goes with the seven and a half? Like,
what does it do to it?
>> Yeah. What does that look like?
>> Sure. One second, guys.
>> And and I'm fine with not touching it
now, but I think it's not going to pass.
And
I don't think the next referendum after
that's going to pass. If we just go with
the school cut, we're still going to
need to do more. So we we do it now or
do it later. I guess
>> we Yeah. I just wanted to see what it
look like.
>> Rob, what do you have for
>> one second?
>> Grand total expenditures.
>> What? Sorry.
>> What do you have for grand total
expenditures?
>> Uh one sorry 13 million 667.
Sorry. 6762.
>> All right. Because we have to rec
because I Yeah, I have more than that.
So,
>> okay. I've got something wrong then.
>> Well, I've got something wrong.
>> Yeah.
Uh, this is
>> if this is what I I would do. You see
the green bars?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Let's just quickly I hate to take time
to do it, but let's just quickly look at
the every green bar and make sure we
have the same green bar amount.
>> Green bar.
>> You know what I'm saying? The green bar
that's in your spreadsheet right there.
>> The three four the four green lines,
Rob, that you're showing us right now.
>> Yep. Total capital related grand
expendit. Let's go to the top and make
sure that we're right. No, that we have
everything.
>> No, no, no. Stay at the bottom first.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Right. because this is where you did the
majority of your changes and then you
can if you have to figure it out after
>> back up.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> So, Rob, right there at capital stay
slide down and Lisa, you and he match up
to the capital numbers.
>> Hold on. Let me see.
>> Yep.
>> So, 1028750.
>> No, I'm sorry. 98
>> No, 998750 is correct. That's what I
have.
>> Yeah,
>> Yep. All
right. And and and you can tell one
thing other to check. Slide down a
little bit. You can figure out where
your problem is. If your municipal
budget numbers work, your RAM numbers
budget work. Like which number is off?
>> Well, the total expenditure if you go
back up the total expenditure for town.
Rob, go back up yours. Mine and yours
were off. That's you have 3351165.
I have 3346554.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. This is a formula.
So, the question is, what fields here
uh are we off?
>> Can can you tell me the number that that
that is? What is it? $4,000.
>> That's what I was just going to say.
It's still easier just to go by the
green bar because that's a total for
that section. And if that way we can
just quickly find the section.
>> Green bar.
>> She wants She wants to go on the totals,
all the totals. Look at the library
total and match it. Look at the total
and match it. And then when
>> I just don't see any green
>> the green lines that you spreadsheet.
>> No.
>> Oh, maybe do you not have colors?
>> Am I color blind? I don't know.
>> I don't know. Maybe you're color blind,
but you got a green.
>> These look blue to me. These look blue
to me.
>> Oh, you're color blind.
>> You're color blind.
>> I never knew that. Okay. Uh All right.
Very good. To me, this is light blue.
Very good.
>> No problem.
>> Learn something new every day.
>> All right. So, let's just quickly go
from the bottom. Go back to the
>> three. I'm sorry. I'll scroll back down.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we'll start here.
>> Yes. Now, go up. Okay. The next one is
44792. You have that.
>> Yeah.
>> No. Now, go up to the next shaded.
>> Got it.
>> 118096.
Yeah. 244589.
Yeah.
>> Um 3 369 370. Yep. That's good.
11 1059 is good.
204066.
Yep, that's good.
63239 is good.
917 is good.
12587 is good.
This isn't uh shaded, but
Where you should be now? You should be
on
>> here.
>> Yeah. 741 346. Okay, that's off.
>> So there's something.
>> Whoa, that's off.
>> All right.
>> So, what do you got on the first line?
Social Security and and Med. I have 101
806. You have 102.
>> 1021 1888. I I didn't touch this number.
>> All right, let me check. Um,
oh, it's to do with salaries. So, there
must have been salary changes since we
did the sheet in the beginning.
>> Mhm.
>> So, let's do
>> it's a formula though. So, it's pulling
from something.
>> All right. Hold on.
Pulling from s from a salary. Um,
>> pulling from the salary.
>> If you see up here like this, you know,
I certainly didn't make that. That's
beyond my capabilities.
>> Tab at the bottom. Preliminary salaries,
right? Isn't there a tab at the bottom?
>> Preliminary salaries. Yes. I can't talk.
>> Where do you want me to go?
>> Um, don't go anywhere yet.
All right. I have
13379.
>> Oh, we made a change. We took this and
folded it in
>> up above.
>> But it's the same total. But it's the
same. Yeah, it should be the same.
>> Same total. Yeah. Oh, wait a minute. Did
you add it to that 30,000?
>> No, we added it to this.
>> We added this to this. It's It's But we
didn't do 5,000. We didn't do 5150. We
did 5,000.
So, there's a $150 discrepancy there
potentially.
remember. Hang on. Let me um
>> look at the bottom.
>> At the bottom.
>> God, Robert. All right, there we go.
Hang on a minute. We were in
>> Let me look in here. I mean,
>> what I was trying to do was
>> So, we added 5K to this
this number here.
We didn't add 5150. We added 5,000. That
was I maybe
>> Okay, so that should be 584. And mine
didn't update. So
>> So if we go to this,
>> where is it? Town is it?
>> I'll make sure this is right.
So I'm going back through
>> treasurer clerk wages.
>> Yeah. 58
>> here.
>> 59
32.
>> Oops, I just did the wrong.
It goes here.
There we go.
>> 45 804. We changed um the tax collector,
too.
>> Uh sorry, let me go back.
So 3411
>> tax collector
>> 164
>> uh so there was this Oh yeah there was
this issue
>> 60
>> we never really went back to this the
question of whether this was right
>> let me just get I'm just looking I'm
just checking this real quick
>> I know I just it just reminded me Lisa
of the issue with the class the
certification and the
>> Oh yeah I just went in yeah but We voted
on that last night. No.
>> Yeah, I think we did. No.
>> Yeah. So, I I just fixed that in here.
>> What do we have in there for What's the
right number?
>> 54. Hold on.
>> 45. It's 45 something, right?
>> Um tax collector. Hold on.
45804 in your memo side.
>> Yes, exactly. 45
>> on the memo side there. I always side
but I hadn't I hadn't fixed it here.
Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> Election building department. Just
checking. 270758
31038 26 49.
>> You tell me where you want me to go.
>> All right. Sit tight one second. I'm
almost
I'm down to community center wages
44810. There was a change there. We
changed that to 32500
last night. Correct.
>> We can't
>> which one
>> for the community center.
>> I don't know
>> which which which line
>> the wages for the the assistant
>> and we changed it to what was it again?
>> 325 was right.
>> I think we did, didn't we? I don't know
why I don't have that noted though.
Bizarre.
>> Unless you guys decided to go back.
I have it penciled in and I have the 195
crossed out. So, when I took notes, but
you guys tell me if I'm wrong.
I think that's correct because I think
we added in um the 10,000 for um the one
who's scheduling
>> Oh, the drivers.
>> The drivers. Yes.
>> Okay. So, hold on and let me keep going.
We fix the auditor.
All right. Public works salaries 352
Oh, we changed the overtime salary to
five
for snow
>> that I have in there.
>> Okay,
that and
custodian. believe I've done it. 25.
Okay.
Something that Jeff had said before too.
Am I not including transfer station
wages or
um
>> what
>> the board clerks?
Are they not are they not part of what
you want to consider a salary?
Um, I'm only saying that because uh they
get a paycheck, but they they're not in
like a salary line, but like your board
clerk
board of finance.
>> So, it's like a it's handled as a
stipen.
>> Yeah. It's goes
>> It's not Yeah, some of them are.
>> It's a It's a It's not an employed
position. It's a 1099 position.
>> Okay. So, I'll take those out. I'm just
trying to get a figure for social
security and Medicare, Jeff. So, if you
tell me
>> um
the library should the library should
stay in there,
>> the driver stay in there, the resident
coordinator stay in there
>> like the fire marshall should come out,
right? And the deputy salary deputy
salary should come out.
>> Nope.
>> Okay. So, I'll just take out the board
clerk.
And this is where we talked, you know,
next year when we get to this where we
probably need a line item for $2,000.
And you know, that's that money we pay
over the guy in Coventry or Columbia or
wherever he comes from.
>> No, I wouldn't put him in salary. I
don't think
>> No, I mean somewhere under farmer
>> the abatement. Oh, yeah. That should be
>> we would add a line is my point,
>> right? Should we do that now? That's
we're looking at the budget.
>> Mean
>> that's a good idea.
>> Here we are.
>> Let's let's let's get a total here just
so I can finish that to see why we're
>> Let's try to come back. Yeah. Okay.
>> All right. So right now
it looks like our total salaries are
1322107
because I took all the board clerks out
of the bottom. Now the selectman salary
that goes through the payroll so that
should stay a W2. Jeff, right?
>> Yep.
>> Okay. All right. All right. So, let's
take that
times the um
1765 I mean 765 because I think that's
where that came from.
All right. So, now did that come down?
Because that total went down.
Let's see. Hold on.
while Lisa is working.
Um,
obviously the board we have to I have to
create a presentation for the 1st of
April.
we
should think about in the past I believe
that what we've done is we've presented
the budget and we have had an optional
meeting set up after that
>> if we wanted to take action
you know based on feedback
the other thing we should consider just
consider
is the town budget meeting is set for a
Thursday, the 9th of April, not the 8th,
the Wednesday.
I believe that was originally done
because there was a meeting conflict,
maybe board of ed or something. We could
consider
whether our board, if we haven't already
scheduled one, we could throw a meeting
in there if we feel we need it.
I'm I'm thinking that we would want to
look at the presentation that you put
together and review it as a board and
tweak it.
>> So, in my mind, that would be a good
night to make sure all the numbers look
right, the budget looks right, your
presentation, you know, I always I think
the presentation that Mark Brinker
always put together was good. But I
think it'd be a good outline to use for
the one that
>> that you're going to use, but I think it
would be
advantageous. I don't know how the rest
of the board feels for us to take a look
at that. I mean, to to put it all on
your shoulders doesn't really make
sense, you know, um, and and just have
you present it without any of us seeing
it. So, I I would think
>> No, I I don't want I Yeah, I want to and
I'm going to reach out to I think at
least you and Liz and anybody else who's
want to help. Um I have some thoughts
about how I would do things slightly
differently. Um
>> and just in terms of the order of how we
present things, but the same basic data.
>> Yeah.
>> We want to get across.
>> How's the rest of the board feel? No
one's saying much there about having
that meeting Wednesday night.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think it's a good idea.
>> Sounds too.
>> We did that. I think we did that last
year. I think we
>> I agree.
I mean, I remember Mark always used to
email around
>> He did
>> his draft
presentation.
>> Um, but I got to get that together.
>> Yeah. And if you got it out to us, you
know, a day or two early,
>> then we could always take a look at it
and go to that meeting on Wednesday
night with any input that we had and
make it a short meeting hopefully just
to review the presentation.
>> Right. Right. I mean the presentation
dry run is the first like Mark would
always put the presentation I I believe
that if if my recollection is correct he
would go into the hearing
with the presentation and then tweak it
maybe
as needed but it was it was ready for
the first
so I basically have a week
to come up with this Um, which means
this weekend I'll probably be doing
that. Um, and again I'll probably reach
out to some of you to to
gut check me, help me with my
technological difficulties, etc. Um, but
you know, I'm going to follow I would
largely I I I definitely intend to go
back and look at some of his,
you know, Mark's past presentations. I I
might shuffle the deck a bit, but it's
the same basic info. I want to keep it
short and sweet and straight to the
point and, you know, focusing on what we
need. The other thing I want to make
sure of
is the information provided to the
town's people who
come to town meeting on the 9th,
what's printed out for them.
um you know the AES budget, our our town
side budget with the AES and RAM
included all all the various things that
we think we need on the table there for
people to pick up and look at and
hopefully be able to follow.
I've always felt that as somebody coming
in cold, you might
find it confusing. So,
>> you know, anybody who has thoughts on
how to make that better, I I'm all I'm
all ears.
>> We used to print
>> Sorry, Lisa.
>> Yeah.
>> Where are we on?
>> Yeah. For the budget hearing and just
place them and we would place them in
town hall and people could come get them
before the meeting so that they could
look.
>> Yeah. We we put them out. We put them
out in because we do it in the school
gym, Lisa.
>> Yep. Yep. We did too.
>> We put them out there.
>> Um, so here let's let's talk about this.
Are are we reconciled? Are we
>> Well, no. Go back to employee benefits
and tell me and show me that line that
you have there.
>> Okay, sir.
>> What? Employee benefits.
>> Keep going up.
>> Yeah,
>> keep going up. What's the line number?
>> I am
>> 4117
>> there. No.
>> No. What? No, actually you're right. Why
isn't it It's
I think it's out of order.
Go back down. It's after
>> we want employee benefits, right?
>> Right there.
>> It's right in front of you. Employee
benefits.
>> Oh, god. Yeah, I got that. By the way,
that was complete serendipity. All
right. Here we are.
>> Oh, but now mine went out of Come on.
Okay. All right. I've got 746.81 for
total town expenses. You have 743117.
Hold on.
>> We're off by three grand.
>> Yeah.
>> It We'll find it. It's easy. 60.
>> Story of my life.
>> Hate to say this, but especially in
Andover, people.
>> Hey,
>> it's been tough. It's been a long road.
>> No, you're you're entitled to a few to a
few starky comments, lady. All right.
So, where are we going to find this
three grand? Um,
>> well, we're going to No, it's $2,436.
So, stay right there from the 740
>> and go to Let me just look at the rest
of your 254 1,3200,400
137 750 338. Okay, go up.
>> We made an adjustment, remember, to the
insurance line. Is did you have this in
here? This is the Kerma 1 4%
>> not kerma health and and dental. We left
at three. Kerma is insurance. Yes,
you're right. Um, no. I exchanged at 12.
Nope. That's good. I have that.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Keep going up.
6,9751.
Um. Oh, right there. That's off. Hold
on.
>> Okay.
>> What do we got? What's wrong here? Um,
but first we got to figure out what's
wrong. Why is this wrong?
74681. Oh, because that's a total of
that. Hold on. So, do you have 509?
>> Is this right?
>> 163 341.
>> Hold on.
>> Yes, that's correct.
>> Okay. So we should move up to final
>> 47 242 2540
keep going up 105
wait 105 yep 64504
113 291
104 645
not yeah 932605 so there's but there's
something in there then that we're have
to going to go have to go between the
lines go below the 9326105 because
that's fine. It's got to be something
underneath that. So, let me just look at
those.
>> Hold on because we had a lot of changes.
I see a lot of pink in there. Hold on.
Yep. Right there.
>> Administrative assistant. Is that 30 or
25?
>> We voted I thought
to take it back to 30 last meeting.
Guys, remind me. But I think we did.
>> I I can't remember. I think we did. I
believe we did. Yeah,
>> I think that's correct.
>> I think we did. Okay, so 30. Okay.
Oops.
All right.
Where'd you go?
>> I went to hold expenditures in the hope
that $5,000 got us there.
>> Hold on. Now we're at town
administrator. So, let me just see.
>> You want me to go back up?
>> No, stay right there. If you're going to
If you're there, stay there.
>> Okay.
>> Let me just see where we're at.
Almost there. All right.
No, still not. Still not the same.
>> Not quite right. How far off? 13676127
- 13
>> 67
>> 691
>> we're about 15
>> 80
>> 15,000 off
>> 15,000 off.
>> Okay,
>> let's go back. Go back to where we were
to town.
>> I just want to do one thing. Okay, where
do you want me to go back to? Up top.
>> Town administrator. Yeah, that line
right below the 900,000.
this here.
>> Yes. Yeah. Hold on. Let me get there.
>> Is it project manager zero or 15,000?
>> Yeah. I say the same thing. It's exactly
15 grand.
>> No, I have 15 for that.
>> I don't think we cut. Did we Did we wipe
that out?
>> No, we didn't because we have the road
projects. That's right. That's uh
>> Yeah, we did not. I thought we left.
>> We did. We left it alone.
>> All right, go down to the next treasurer
financial
104. That one looks right. 5943.
Hold on.
1310. Hold on. 113 291.
Where are you? There you are. Yep, that
one looks right.
65504 looks right. 105567
1633 341
That one is correct. That green line is
correct now.
>> All right. Or blue line or whatever,
right?
>> You know, I wasn't gonna object anyway.
>> All right. Keep going. legitimately had
no idea.
>> All right, keep going.
>> 127712.
>> Find down here.
>> That That's something. There's something
right there. Right there. Um Rob, you
you have
Social Security and medical.
And mine actually just changed again
because we changed those salaries. So,
let's do um it's 101524.
Because we just
>> All right. Should I So this is a
formula. It's a formula.
>> 101524.
>> Yes. Yeah. Because we just changed that.
Remember we just changed the salary
amount. What did we just change? $5,000.
>> I think you need to change it on the
salary page and then it will feed to
here.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. But I think Lisa has the she has
the grandmaster, right? She has the
grandmaster. We kind
>> Lisa
my spreadsheet doesn't count. My
spreadsheet is for
>> a working
because now now that that green balances
so
>> so let's go back to the bottom y
>> and see where we are.
>> And we were at just above town garage is
where we stopped. So
let me just see.
I don't know if that would have been
15,000 though.
>> That's not 15,000.
>> Let's see. What do you got?
>> Um,
all right. You have 689.
>> Tried to zoom in. That was a bad idea.
six 27
68 927.
It's 13,000 even that it's off. So, it's
got to be something in front of our
faces and we're just not seeing.
>> Oh, Lord. All right.
>> 13,000 even. Go up to garage.
>> Yes, ma'am. Um
>> just above garage. Go to community
center
>> in the garage.
>> No, go up to community center. I just
wanted because we bounced at 70 741063.
We bounced there above. Yeah, it was a
dollar, but I don't care about a dollar.
>> All right. So,
>> that's the issue.
>> Can I ask a question? Not to
>> be a fly in the ointment. Is it possible
that any numbers on the income
side might have changed at all? Nothing
>> because I'm just checking expenditures
right now. But I think this is what it
is. I think it's that community center
assistant because you have what do you
have in there, Rob?
Go up there. Right there. You have 325
and mine is still saying
195. And I think that's the difference.
Yeah, that's it. 32
500.
All right. Now, let's go to the bottom
and I think we'll be okay.
>> Okay.
>> All right. 13689127.
Ha. There you go.
>> Huzzah.
So, the expenditures are good.
>> 389127.
>> Y
>> copy.
>> Yep.
>> Copy.
>> Sorry, guys. I just wanted to make sure.
>> No, Lisa. Look, I want you get it right.
So,
>> to be raised by taxes.
Okay, good. We're at 9.4. before.
That's a wrap.
And
there's this issue.
>> I think Heather, didn't you ask um what
if AES
uh limited the 7.5?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah. Sorry, guys. So, this is the I Oh.
Oh, I put that in.
>> I actually put that in.
>> So, hold on
a moment because I actually put that in
and that's wrong.
This is with that in.
Shoot.
>> Yeah, but take it out. It looks like I
don't think it changed when you put it
in.
>> It's weird, isn't it?
>> Yes.
>> Hold on a all a bunch of calculations
that go to that bottom number because I
was trying to play with this the other
day.
>> So, hold on. This is I know this is a $5
million number. I just I need to find
the right answer. And I if if I back up
all my changes, it's going to wipe out
all the stuff I did up here. Um does
anybody have the AES number handy?
the the the the budget request. I don't
>> Yes. Hold on. AS is 5063651.
>> That
>> Where are you? I can't see. But you
right here.
>> Oh, okay. There you are. Yes. Yep.
>> So, why doesn't the bottom line change?
>> Why isn't this changing? H35 by H.
I'm going into mine, too, just to see
what I get. 5063.
>> Something's Yeah, something seems off
here. Thanks, Heather, for
>> 4262
>> total over budget. Oh, I need to copy
this. I need to get it here.
>> Budget and the town budget is separate.
>> Try pasting the value instead of pasting
the entire thing. Maybe it's got an
issue where it's reading the number as
text.
>> I I I got the right number in there at
least.
Um
>> I'm still working on mine.
>> Right. That's right.
>> Can Can you click on the 9.4? What's
that formula?
>> Sure.
>> Hid.
That should be the difference between
this year and last year divided by the
previous year. Yep. But that's
>> Yep.
>> You're looking at
>> this. We have to make sure this number
right here is right. And
>> hold on.
>> That's coming off here.
And this formula.
>> It's taking into account all of these
fields, which Yeah. Okay. I should be
right. All
right. Just add real quick.
Then why didn't you change? That's the
weird part.
>> Let me look at I'm still looking at mine
and then maybe I'll have an answer for
you. Let me see.
4363.
>> I mean, eyeballing this, if this number
is right,
>> but don't forget, you got horizontal and
vertical. Okay, so that that down there,
that 9% is horizontal. It's not
vertical, but some of your differences
are vertical.
>> It's keying it's keying off the
difference between these two things,
which makes sense as long as this is
right.
So
>> this is this is the this is the
>> question mark.
>> Yes. Yeah. Because down below, let me
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. Let's see down below of your
spreadsheet. I want to make sure yours
and mine are the same. See, mine's a
little different. So why is that? Hold
on.
>> Okay.
>> 126 164 right there.
Where
where are you getting your town expenses
of 4389223?
>> I never touched this number.
>> Well, it must be outdated from what
we've done.
>> This is not pulling from anywhere else.
>> Right.
>> What's the number?
>> Well, the number is
I just added, let me double check. 998.
We got capital of 998. Is that right?
Hold on.
Yep. Capital of 998750
and then a municipal budget of 3364272
equals 4,36322
should go in there.
Okay, that's better. So now you've got
your grand total budget of the 1 million
13,689.
>> But this is this is wrong then. All
right.
Or is it? Because you look at this
formula. Sorry.
>> This formula is F11.
That's
just this number here.
>> Okay.
>> Whatever this number
>> is that right.
>> Hold on. Let me look at mine because
mine was right. Let me see. I'm still
making sure the B go back to the bottom
because I don't think I'm still getting
the same. Yeah. Hold on.
>> Okay.
>> All right. 242 164. All right. We're
getting that. Okay. All right. So, all
of this.
All right.
0103 10939.
Let me see this figure. Hold on.
All right. This is F11.
So, I just came to that like you did.
That is the only figure. Hold on.
It is because I think let's see F11.
>> Oh
yes. Um but you guys I mean that
abatements I left it at 45,000. I you
know you could think about that. I don't
know what Jeff thinks about that, but um
that's
>> okay.
>> Included in that. So,
>> the main thing is, you know, based on
what numbers we have, is this right?
>> Well, let me check my Hold on.
>> I don't understand why it doesn't change
when you change the
>> Yeah, that's my concern.
>> 689
27.
All right. What are you saying isn't
changing up top? This this uh I35
>> the amount should be changed by
taxation. So when we look at will we
change this number here like just just
for funsies.
>> I think it's to do do with those
abatements because that is deducted from
your total. Mhm.
>> So, I don't think they're included in
the taxation piece because you're taking
that away.
>> Do you know what I'm saying?
>> I think you need to do
>> those are fine because you're that
that's fine. It's it's your total
vertical and horizontal is is this 10
is what I'm getting down there. Yeah,
you're down there.
But you want to take that from your tub.
It comes right from the cell. So, is
this the right formula? So, here's what
I did.
>> This,
>> right, we're adding up the expenditures.
>> Yep.
>> And we're deducting revenue, which I
pulled from
where is it? Total revenue here. Six.
So, is that oops
is that right? G24 plus G27 plus G29
minus F6.
>> It you're deducting revenue where on the
bottom where
really doesn't have to do with revenue
up top has to do with revenue. That's
what I'm saying. that revenue is
adjusted by those abatements that you
will not get taxation for because you're
giving those abatements back.
>> Okay, so this is
>> that figure that 10 939 right there.
Even though it's different than what it
says, you have to allow for that.
At least that's what I've always
understood.
need to copy that 10,939 number down
there in the
>> Sorry. Hang on a minute. What do you
want? You want me to put this here?
>> Yeah. Copy it and then do
>> Well, I can't copy for 10.
>> Yes, you can. Yes, you can do copy and
then right click and paste it as a paste
it as a
>> No, not as a formula. Paste it as a as a
number. Oh,
>> as a number. Okay, you're right. Yeah.
Right. If you if Yeah. Pay special. Yep.
If go up
where See one, two, three. Yep.
>> This here.
>> Yep. Yep. You got it.
>> Thank you.
>> You learned something new today.
>> Is that right? Is that That's the same
number. Okay.
Why didn't this change at all?
>> What didn't change?
>> The 9.4%.
>> Never changes. Yeah, mine changed. Mine
was 9.1 and now it's 9.3. So, mine
changed. Um,
>> so why the heck is this at
>> 935?
>> H35 and F35
>> 103.
>> But I mean,
>> are you looking like you're saying your
budget has changed? This is ch your
amount of taxation has changed. Your
budget is not the same thing. Your
budget is that
>> I know that. I get that. I mean, but
this at the end of the day,
>> this is the number right here.
>> Right. We want to know what the mill
rate. So like and look at the uh mill
rate increase per 8.29. Is that correct?
It's made a mill rate.
>> Yeah. Because if you take take the
difference between the 3421 it's
projecting and then the 3159 and divide
that by the 3159 that's what you'll get
I believe.
>> Is that what you have?
>> 829. Yes. Yeah. That's what I have.
>> 829.
>> Yeah.
Oh,
>> I Yeah,
I admit I'm a little
>> Okay,
>> that's what it is. 829.
That's the percentage in the jump of
your mill rate is what that is. That's
not the budget.
>> I don't care. I don't really care about
the mill rate except that we have to
we're going to have to disagregate it.
But
>> this year, this is the number. This is
the one
>> you're saying it's a 8% bill rate
increase.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. 8.3.
>> 8.3
because the the grand list went up.
>> No.
>> So
>> what's the number of mills? Not the not
percentage. What is the number of mills?
>> Mills is just Yeah. 346.
>> That's a flat number.
>> Almost three mills.
Yep.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. 2.62.
Yeah. 2.62 mils.
>> Yep.
>> Ain't going to fly.
>> No, I mean, look, this is I'm just
trying to get the math right, guys.
Like, we'll get to the part where it
passes or doesn't pass later,
>> but
>> this here,
>> I'm just concerned when we were changing
stuff in here that this number wasn't
>> didn't seem to change. And I want to
make sure it's right. Lisa, is that what
you have? 9.4.
>> No, I I have nine. I have 9.3, but I
mean, it's not that.
>> Okay, that's not great.
>> Why are we off?
>> Well, the cell sales in Excel can be off
a small amount like that. Like a small
percentage like that. I there it's not
always perfect because I'm I'm looking
at all my numbers, but I can't see them
now.
>> All right. 9.36
>> 514989.
I'm just verifying I have
>> that I know how to do. Give me another
decimal point.
>> Yeah. See, that's why that's what I
mean. You had 94 rounded and I have 93
rounded. So, I'm not worried about that.
>> I do want to go back up to make sure
something though. I just want to make
sure this didn't change up in total
estimated revenue like you know Liz had
mentioned but I'm just double checking
this just to be positive
>> okay
>> 103 three.
>> I think I would like to make a
recommendation for next year is that we
have a shared file.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's only one file that gets
manipulated because what you're trying
to do is you're trying to match two
different files with two different
people putting different information in
it. And
>> so the question would be how we handle
access to the file.
>> Yeah,
>> that that can be dealt with, but it
should be one file.
>> It should be one file and that's yeah,
we should never work for two files.
>> I don't disagree with that. The only
flip side to it is I mean at least I'd
still want to be able to download it and
screw around with it in my own time, but
yes.
Yes.
200 150
>> but this is where we're at. Um let's
look at our
>> I am going to Hold on. There might be a
there I think there is a little change I
think from when this was originally
done.
It was last year's estimated. So let me
put that in here and see.
Hold on.
>> Okay.
Three.
>> In fact,
>> 1034
562 minus
10.
>> Where were we?
>> 562.
>> Oh boy. Oh boy.
All right. Um
>> All right. Go up top. Go back up top.
No, I guess it didn't make a difference.
I just wanted to be sure.
>> I'm not quite sure what's going on here.
and it's not great, but let's see if we
can
>> sort it out over the next few days. Um,
but I think we really need to move on.
Um,
>> 62. Yeah, I think that's correct. I
think what's in there is correct.
>> Yeah, I just wanted to double check
before you um but what I I mean I don't
know if I'm right or not, but you're
real concerned to be done by tonight to
get it done by April 1st is your
expenditures
>> and those are done.
>> That's right. Yeah. I mean, and this is
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we know where we are. Um,
liazison reports.
Um, I would just mention and I I've
already talked about this. The fire
department came to CIP
and presented they had originally they
needed a new compressor for putting air
into their air tanks.
The one they have now is from I think
and they have started to have more and
more trouble with it and it requires
more and more maintenance. So they went
out and the first quote they got was
$100,000 and CIP I wasn't there. That
was the prior meeting. They sent Wally
back. They said, "Well, you got to get
us some more quotes." So, we went back
and got two more quotes. And the three
quotes were 110,
100, and 65. And the 65 was from a
contractor that we're familiar with and
think are good,
and the fire department's more than
happy to go with that bid. Their
intention would be to use it in the
coming fiscal fiscal year, i.e. after
July 1st.
Uh, and that's their request, you know,
something they'll bring before the board
of finance, but the board of uh, sorry,
the CIP committee, we blessed it and
sent it onward. I think at least some of
you have it in your emails. Um, I think
it's perfectly reasonable, but
that's coming. So, that's my report from
CIP. That's all that's all there was.
one thing that was before us.
Does anyone else have leas reports to
bring before the board?
No. Hearing none
approval of meeting minutes.
I'll be frank. I've had an insane week.
I've been talking with Lisa, Kate, or
Roberta or somebody else most of the
time that I haven't been at work. So, I
haven't looked at any of these. Have you
guys had a chance to review?
>> I haven't.
>> Liz, you're you're muted.
>> You're muted, Liz.
>> Now you're muted, Liz.
>> You're still muted.
>> You're muted, Liz.
>> There you go.
>> Okay. I I was going to say I have not.
And I'm wondering if maybe it's best
just to
>> You want to just table it?
>> Can we table next month? that would be
>> let's table it. We'll move it to next
month. Great. Because I I I don't have
the I don't have the capacity for it. So
board open discussion. I mean if anybody
has more they want to talk about this is
the time. Um I just don't want to forget
before we go on correspondence. We do
have a couple things. So remind me
anyway if anybody has more discussion
more they want to talk about VB the
budget VB where we are VB
our plan and our schedule now is the
time. I I honestly feel like we're going
into
our budget hearing rather underprepared
but we're going to do what we can do.
>> So the budget hearing is in the first.
Is that right? That's right.
>> And that's Wednesday.
>> That's a Wednesday. It's Zoom. We do a
It's basically a dry run of the
presentation that we would bring before
uh the town on the 9th.
Um
people on Zoom, you know, they can show
up, they can listen, they can make
public comment, etc. and we can in the
past at least we've always had the
opportunity to have a meeting after that
>> and make final adjustments. I have to
double check how it's set up. I have I
have to see what Kate did in terms of
our agenda and everything like that, but
in the past that's what we've done.
>> So, we talked about doing a meeting on
the eighth den just to have a sanity
check, you know, and all that.
>> That is a possibility. I mean, I'm
throwing it out there to you guys
because there's a few things there's a
few things we talked about tonight that
we don't have definitive answers on.
>> Okay. So, that's that's a good idea
then.
>> What do you guys think? Do you think we
should do something? We should tee up
something on the ETH.
>> Yes,
>> I think it's a good idea.
>> Yeah, probably.
>> Sure.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, I I move we um schedule a
meeting, a special budget workshop
meeting April 8th, Wednesday, April 8th,
700 p.m. via Zoom. Have a second.
>> Second.
>> All right. Bill seconds. Great.
I don't think we need discussion. Uh
let's go ahead and vote. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Liz is a yes. Bill,
>> Bill's a yes. Nick,
>> yes.
Nick's a yes. Heather,
>> Heather's a yes. Kim,
>> yes.
>> Louise,
>> Yes. Myself, yes. At 70, we'll have a
special
uh budget workshop meeting the 8th,
right before we go to town meeting.
Thank you guys because that's it's going
to make me feel a little better even if
it's a short meeting.
>> Sure. we've got on the calendar.
Um, great, great, great, great. Okay, so
um,
do we have further open discussion or
should we go
>> Rob? I do. I have something I just
wanted to mention.
>> Go ahead, Kim.
>> Um, can we please extend an invitation
to the board of education that they sit
in the front of the gym with us on the
April 9th meeting?
>> I thought that was already I'm sorry. I
apologize, but I thought that was
already the plan.
>> I thought we talked about that.
>> I don't know. I just want to make sure
that we do actually extend.
>> I've always thought they should be
there.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I think
voted on voted to make sure that
>> I believe that's correct. Jeff, is that
not true? I thought we were adding them
this year.
>> No, it is. But I don't think it's a bad
idea for the board of finance to make
sure it's your meeting. I I I've already
made arrangements with um Roberto.
>> I think they want to be there. So,
>> right. No, no, no. I just want to make
sure that they know that we want them to
sit up front.
>> Yeah.
>> With us
>> with us. We should all be there.
>> Yeah.
>> So, they can answer questions.
>> Yep.
>> Absolutely.
>> Be able to say somebody asks a question,
you know, why do we need this sixth
grade teacher?
>> We say, "Okay."
>> Correct. Right. Correct.
>> Right.
>> Yep.
>> I just wanted to throw that out there.
Thank you.
>> Good question.
>> No, I agree with you, Kim. And I already
I already thought that was the the plan.
If that is not the plan,
>> that's the plan.
>> That's the plan. All right.
>> I'll just say this. The people I've
talked to, you know, Port or Val or
whatever that they thought that was the
plan. So
>> that's the plan.
>> So anyway, I think we're all on the same
page there. They should be there and
they should be there to answer the
questions that are in their belly whip.
>> Okay.
What else?
>> Okay. Sorry. Does anyone have more or
should I
>> agenda?
>> Sorry. This is the agenda. So, we're on
open discussion. Correspondence is next.
We do have a couple pieces of
correspondence. So,
>> you know,
that's good.
>> Sorry.
So, the first was, and I'll just mention
it, I mean, we've all seen it, which
was,
you know, the response letter from
AS.
I think we all know what this says.
We've all I hope we've all read it.
>> Yep.
>> Um, I didn't This is what I expected,
but, you know, I'm just going to
acknowledge that this is what it is what
it is. It says what it says. Um it's a
you know it's a rejection of a 7.5
recommendation.
So
you know the the second one we
>> can I just make a comment can I just
make a comment on this before before we
move on?
>> Go ahead.
>> Um
>> this says that this is on the behalf of
the board of education.
I'm not aware that there was a meeting
held to discuss our
uh recommendation.
I I'm just wondering how a letter can be
signed by one member of the board of ed
when there was no apparent meeting to
discuss
it. I mean, shouldn't that have been
discussed as a group like an emergency
meeting? We need to make a decision.
Yeah, I'll ask that question.
>> That's, you know, I I see your point
there.
>> I just wanted to throw that out there
and wanted to acknowledge it and um I I
think that's not right. If that's if
that's the way it happened,
>> I see your point.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. All right,
>> that's fair. Um
>> can can you can you share that letter?
>> Oh, you don't have it? I'm sorry. I
don't think I got it.
>> I think it only went to the board of
finance
>> and and and
>> All right. So,
>> can you make sure can you make sure that
that gets in your in your minutes?
>> Oh, get it added to the packet. Yeah.
>> Oh, to the minutes. Yeah.
>> Yeah, that's fair enough. We should add
it to the minutes. You're correct. I am
um Sorry, I am just trying to
get your whole board on here.
Uh, Magguire, Murray, Lee, Cre, and
Croan,
right?
>> Yep.
>> Boom. All right. So, you guys have that
now.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
any event, the the gist of this letter
is basically
we have all these needs. We have these
pressures.
7.5 doesn't work. So, we don't think we
can do it. All right. I encourage you
all to read it. Uh, apologies for not
forwarding it. I when I got it, I
probably should have sent it to Borman
immediately. Um, my fault on that. Um,
sorry. So the second piece of
correspondence we got was from Joanne
>> regarding
it's a long email about stipens.
Um
>> I think we all got Yeah, we all got this
too, right?
>> We all got it. I just want to put it up
there so that people could see
um
her perspective and it's there and we
should include this in the minute as
well in the minutes as well. I guess
this under um correspondence.
>> So
that's what I've got. I don't know if
anyone else has gotten
um
sorry this is a new email from Liz but
fine any other pieces of correspondence
but that's what I have for the board.
Oops. See now I had the but I had the
darn thing up. This is so frustrating.
Apologies everybody
there. So, we're back to we're here.
>> If anybody if nobody else has anything
further, I'm going to go through public
speak. Uh if you guys have anything,
bring it now. Otherwise, um gosh, we'll
we'll talk about it after our hearing.
>> I have a question.
>> Go ahead, Luis. Just wondering whether
we should respond back to Valerie
and if so,
what should we ask?
Why or I mean she did write down that
that was due to um I guess not not
necessarily um contract.
>> There are there are four things there,
right?
>> It's in the letter. It's
>> Yeah. So you could
>> well
>> if you have questions about one of
>> my question is you know maybe instead of
going down to that percentage perhaps
going up to a different percentage. I'm
just wondering if there's some sort of
response that we should try to get it
resolved beforehand or
>> I see your point and that's something we
could we could look at doing that.
>> We have be time we have no time. Um
uh I see your point. I do.
>> But how does everybody else feel about
that
or should we just leave it?
>> No. No.
>> I think we should leave it as it is. We
made it. They responded and that we we
made a recommendation. They responded. I
think that's where it is right now.
That's
>> we don't really have time to change.
>> I think it was also very fair.
Um, and I will just say very very
quickly that I've had a number of phone
calls from people in the community that
are really unhappy with the 7.5%.
They wanted it to be lower.
And I'm just going to say that that's
all.
>> Yep.
>> Thank you.
>> And one other thing,
>> surprise.
>> One other thing. Um, has there been a
final
>> resolution to um
the Dennis versus when when Dennis, our
attorney, made his recommendation
stating that we actually can make the
change, not just recommend. I don't see
final resolution on that.
>> There isn't. There are dueling attorney
opinions
>> and
>> one says they're right, the other says
they're right.
>> And unless and until you took that, and
this would be incredibly stupid for us
to do, but unless and until you took
that before a court, you are not going
to get an adjudication of that. What
you're going to get are two different
attorneys opinions.
>> That's not true.
>> And I mean, I I deal with it. Excuse me.
>> I said that's not true.
How is it not true?
>> Because the town attorney is your
attorney. The board of education's
attorney is their attorney.
>> So if your attorney is telling you you
can do it, then you can do it.
>> Jeff, that's
>> with respect.
>> I work in a field I work in a field
>> where attorney opinions are really
important. I I work in insurance claims
and
there are differences of opinion and
when the case law is not settled when
there is no 100% clear directive from
the courts the honest answer is that
attorney or that attorney could be right
but you don't know for sure unless and
until it's adjudicated.
>> That's that that has no bearing on
you're dealing with right now. I
understand what
>> you mean you have has no
>> you are you are you are sitting there
like taking both sides of this fence.
You are either represented by the town
attorney or by the board of education's
attorney in this case. You have to
understand you're represented by the
town's attorney. So I'm telling you,
Rob, like if you were in your insurance
claims and you were listening to the uh
the other side's attorney, your attorney
would kill you.
Well, I can tell you that as somebody
who's read a lot of legal arguments,
>> I can also tell you that I don't think
very much of the argument you're telling
me to trust.
>> And I can also tell you
>> that if you run into something because
you just are 100% certain you're right
and you haven't, you know, taken
everything into account, you can get
yourself in real trouble. This is the
reason I'm being careful.
>> What is going to happen?
>> I'm being careful.
>> What does careful mean? Careful means
sitting there and just putting a number
up without doing any oversight. Without
doing anything without
>> Yeah. Without doing any oversight.
You're You're putting up just a blank
number that the board of education gave
you. I'll go tell you what to do. Go
look at the Chronicle article about
scholarship education. Go look at Go.
Yeah, I'm going to tell you what to do.
Read the article in the chronicle about
the board of the board of education in
Scotland and what they did. That's all
I'm telling you.
So, you are represented by the town
attorney, not by the board of
education's attorney. You can sit there
and and think you're not getting a good
enough opinion, but
that doesn't tell me that the town is
getting the value that they need to get
out of this board.
So,
>> okay, that's I I hear that's your
perspective, Jeff.
>> And this is one person's opinion. Uh I
>> that's a great
>> tend to um
um appreciate that he came back and
clarified that 802F
was not factored into the conversation
before. And if you read that section,
what he says makes a lot of sense.
that 802F does include the board of
education budget.
Something to read. The board of finance
shall hold at least one public hearing
at the budget at which any taxpayer or
elector may have the opportunity to be
heard regarding the proposed budget. The
board of finance may review the budget
requests with the head of each
department, board, agency, and
commission, including the local board of
education.
Subsequent to such hearing and review,
the board of finance shall prepare a
final budget that incorporates any
recommended changes to be presented to
the town annual town budget meeting.
And that's the language. That's the
language.
>> That's 802F, right? And 802.
>> That's the language he called out.
That's the language he called out.
>> I'm I'm And I am I'm very I have read
all of his opinions. I I completely
agree understanding what you're doing. I
actually appreciate the fact that we're
initially it wasn't the case, but we're
focusing in on what the charter says. Um
that said,
you know, the the BOE attorneys are like
the experts in the field for education
law. So this is why when I not an
attorney, though I work with many and
deal with legal stuff all the time, I
thought to myself, you know what I'm
going to do here? I've got dueling
opinions.
I'm going to take the safer road. I
understand your perspective. I really
do.
I really do. I personally would like to
amend our charter to make this clearer.
>> Okay. And we don't have time to do that,
>> you know, and we know we can't do that
today.
>> I think what Rob did
>> when the time comes
>> I think when the time comes we discuss
it and we take a vote.
>> Okay.
>> And I think what Rob did in all fairs is
what this town has always done
>> for as long as I've been in town. This
is the way we've operated.
This is this is the way it's always been
done. So,
>> absolut absolutely not about five. Bill,
Bill, before you got on this, when Jeff
Murray and Adrien Mandville were on this
and Rob, I think you just started, they
cut the board of education budget by
$300,000.
>> Yeah, there was
>> there was a year that did do that.
>> There was a time and I was brand new. I
was brand new, but I believe Jeff is
right.
>> I had not read the charter. I was told
what the charter said and what we could
do and I went along with it. It you know
and that
that happened.
That doesn't mean
to me
>> because we did past practice you know
that that means that it was the right
call. That said again I personally would
love to clarify this. I have no problem,
zero problem with the idea that the
board of finance can before going to
public meeting cut the school board's
budget. I would like it to be clearer in
the charter right now based on the way
the charter is written and the dueling
attorney opinions. I'm reluctant to go
there. That's it.
>> You say you continue to say dueling. You
are represented by the town attorney,
not by the board of education's
attorney. They have their own attorney.
They pay their own attorney. We pay the
town attorney. He's giving you the
authority to do it.
>> If you choose not to do it, I respect
that.
>> But I am telling the board, you have an
opinion that says you can do it. every
other town that you deal with that you
go look at are sitting there making
recommendations to cut the budget and
they do it all the time.
>> Their charters some of them I mean I
looked at please stop playing with our
charters common sense should tell you to
make
to look at other town charters and I did
that
>> and they vary and Salem's is super super
clear. I would love ours to be that
clear, Jeff. That said, that said,
>> we all have a vote. All right.
What's going to happen if we do that
right now? Their lawyer is going to Do
you think it's just going to
>> They're going to get their lawyer and
they're going to sue the town and
they're going to it's going to be a
mess. We'll never get this budget
through. So why can't we just go to the
people like we always have, let them
vote it down, which they're going to do,
and then we will have the authority to
act on the budget when it's bifocated.
>> What's the point about that?
>> Right now based on what our attorney has
recommended, we have the authority to do
it. So why aren't we doing it?
>> Because he may not be right. That's why.
>> Because I don't I'm not confident in
that. because we have a we have an
education attorney telling us it's
wrong.
>> I honestly
>> and you got two different attorneys who
are qualified. They're both qualified to
talk about this stuff.
>> Attorney O'Brien isn't going to give us
bad advice.
I I I just I don't understand.
>> Again, if you've worked if you've worked
in a field where you get legal advice a
lot,
>> I get it all the time. And sometimes
sometimes you get good advice, sometimes
you don't. And you can walk into a
buzzsaw if you are just convinced you're
right about something. All I'm saying,
and again, my caution is driven by my
experience in 25 plus years of what I
do. It's not just about this town,
although it is, but it's also about what
I work
>> and how I comfortable with the
>> These are not you. I went looking I went
looking for case law on this. There's
very little to be honest with you. Um so
look I am trying to take what we did
last year was kind of the middle road
what Mark did last year. I I was saying
we should hue to that an abundance of
caution and I fully fully believe that
we should revise our charter to be
crystal clear
because right now
the way it's set up.
I'm sorry. You could read either opinion
and you could come away thinking, "Wait
a minute." So that's my take. You guys
look, we're aboard.
I we are gonna we're gonna have another
discussion. If you guys want to make a
vote on the 9th uh after the sorry, not
the 9th, the first. My apologies.
>> It would be after the hearing.
>> On the first after the hearing, if you
guys want to make a call, you know, I'm
telling you why I don't want to do it.
>> But may I speak
>> one member of the board. Go. Please. By
all means. I I'm done.
>> Yeah. Okay. I'd like to make a motion
to reduce the school AES budget down to
the 7 and 12% that we recommended.
>> Louise, we can't do that yet. If we if
we were to do it, it would have to be
after the hearing.
>> But can't we do it? Even I think even by
Dennis's
>> estimation.
>> Okay.
>> Per per the per the charter per the 802F
charter language, it gives us the
opportunity to present the entire budget
to um any taxpayer that wants to attend
the uh the hearing. And then based on
any comments from that, if we
decide we we would take um we may review
the requests with the head blah blah
blah including the local board of
education. Subsequent to such hearing
and review, the board of finance shall
prepare a final budget that incorporates
any recommended changes. So, at this
point, we made a recommendation.
They rejected it. So, it does have to go
at least to the hearing on the first
first.
>> If I understand attorney O'Brien's
argument properly, Liz has it right.
>> Okay.
>> It would be Louise, if what you want to
do would happen after the hearing on the
first.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> That's how I understood that, too.
>> Correct.
>> But thank you, Luis. Okay.
>> Yeah. I think that was fair, Louise.
Thank you.
>> No, thanks for the explanation.
>> Y
>> All right. So, I mean, procedurally,
let's talk about it then.
>> Y
>> um
I think we've we've talked about that.
Does anybody Sorry. Does anybody have
any further correspondence? Is there
anything else from the public from
correspondence?
>> Public speak.
>> We're going to do public speak next.
Yes.
So if hearing none,
I'll go around. Um Scott, do you have
anything further you want to add?
>> To add that last year they got 550. This
year they're getting 500. When's when's
this going to end?
>> 550 I don't think is quite right. They
got 5%.
>> Oh, you're right. I apologize.
>> When's this going to end? Well, they got
to get it another half a million next
year. And our and the total amount of
the budget is going to go less than 19.
>> It depends on uh
>> Yeah. Yeah. It depends on depends on
what depends on what we what is the town
going to run the our town on.
>> Okay.
Okay.
You good?
>> I'm good.
Take it. Carol,
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Okay. Um,
there's someone I don't recognize. Uh,
Ron,
>> hi.
Can you hear me? All right.
>> Yes, we can hear you.
>> Okay. First of all, I want to thank all
of you for what you do. It's a volunteer
board and you all work hard on trying to
do what we're supposed to do. Um, I'm a
citizen in town. I've been in town for
now 15 years. The town's a great town.
Um, I think education, we have an
elementary school, folks. Elementary
school. We don't have a high school. We
pay for RAM, which is a fixed price on
depending on how many storms we pass.
We really need to look at, do we need a
psychologist? Do we need a sixth grade
teacher? When we're sacrificing, you
guys are trying to balance the budget. I
hear you. And it's like crazy for the
rest of the town. It's got to even out
somewhere. You know, education maybe
some more more so on one year and then
maybe town more on another year. It's
got to balance out somewhere. Okay. Your
volunt is also, like I said, your
volunteer. You do this on your own,
which is fantastic. And I thank
everybody for doing that. But also, if
your attorney is telling you it's okay,
it's the attorney that should know the
charter. He should know what he's
talking about. you know, you poke
shouldn't be, you know, if the whole
board says, "No, we're not going to
we're going to go with the seven," then
that's how it should be because you guys
are working your butt off. You're going
back and forth making yourself crazy
here. But I think we need to do more a
little more for the town. We've been
like, like the other gentleman said, I'm
sorry, I forgot his name. We're doing
what's going to keep going up and up.
Yeah, I get it. We got to give to
education. We got to keep good teachers,
but it doesn't have to be a ridiculous
amount like like they're asking for this
year. There's a lot of seniors in this
town. And um thank you again and and and
for listening to me. I appreciate it.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you, Ron. Uh the the one thing I
just quickly just quickly say because I
happen to remember it. I think the
psychologist is a state requirement. I
think that's something they absolutely
have to have. But beyond that,
>> it may it may not have to be full-time.
It may not have to be full-time. That's
>> that would be that we can we can drill
down on that list.
>> They have to offer the services. They
have to have a certain level of
psychological service
>> for testing.
>> Correct.
>> But we don't need to be paying them
full-time benefits and full-time salary,
right? Just more out of the budget that
we don't
>> That is that is a question I I would
defer on because that's
>> if we can share it with another town, if
we can share maybe with Hein or
whatever, that would be fantastic. Now,
that's compromising, right?
>> Look, I'm I'm always into sharing.
Sharing is good. Uh wherever we can. Um,
so, okay. So, that was just my one
comment is that I remembered that from
discussions with the superintendent.
Okay. Um, I'm sorry. Uh, Joanne.
>> Okay. I'll make it quick. Um, I started
the night saying that this is hard
things. Hard decisions have to be made.
I know it's not easy. Um,
again, I know that you're faced with a
huge number. Um, remember our charter
did change. So that if there aren't cuts
made, you know, whenever you decide to
make them and you bring it to town
meeting and it does pass, depending on
how your audience is comprised,
this could be the budget you're left
with with almost a 10% taxation
increase. So, I mean, I think it's fair
when making some hard decisions because
of the things that I pointed out, you
know, the lack of probably a lot of
projects, new projects coming on board,
perhaps, you know, the capital could
have taken a little bit more off. I
understand that you want to put it to
the people to talk and and I'm not
afraid. I'm not afraid my name to be out
there. This is being recorded. I think
the board of education budget is too
high as well, you know, but I also
wouldn't have had that stop me from
making some realistic cuts other places
this particular year and then maybe
putting some funds back. It's hard for
me to see an elected board, you know,
and and and I want to give give props to
some of our new people that are on the
board of bringing up some suggestions
and all of that. Again, all of this is
hard. It's just it's hard not to see a
little bit more cut off before it goes
before the town because then you're
you're facing,
you know, we're a town of 3,000 pretty
much residential people funding. Oh, and
this is what I wanted to say. I'm sorry.
It's exhausting, too. Um, you know,
we're marrying the town to all of these
expenses. We're taking a chance. That's
a huge expense increase. I mean, there's
nothing wrong with if things fail, you
know, or, you know, people want some
resolution to put a little bit of the
fund balance against it, but again, I
think a few more cuts could be made.
It's hard, but it's it's possible. Thank
you for all your hard work.
>> Thanks, Joanne.
Meredith member, um, have I missed
anyone? I see no one else,
>> unless I missed you. Yes.
>> I just had a question. Do you want me to
post this
um give it to Kate to post on the
website Monday?
>> The the new the budget book. Yeah.
>> Just so people have it.
>> Put it out there.
>> Okay.
>> My my my version is full disclosure.
That's that's how I work.
>> Okay. Yep.
>> Lisa, can I ask you one quick question?
>> Yeah. Can you can you tell us what the
um what the town portion of the budget
increase or decrease is from last year?
>> Oh, I shut my computer off.
>> Okay, never mind. Never mind. I'm just
curious.
>> Look what you get.
>> It's in that it's in that Yeah, it's in
that mill rate. Um
>> let me just see.
>> Hang on. The mill rate. Hang on. I got
that.
>> Could you email it to us, Lisa? Oh,
sure. Yeah, it's down at the bottom.
It's down at the bottom of the uh budget
book.
>> Okay.
>> Those totals down at the bottom.
>> It should have last year's and this
year's.
>> Okay.
>> I believe this one here.
>> Just email me. Um I'm not going to be in
tomorrow. I'm gonna be with my twins.
>> Oh, good.
>> My twin toddlers, two year olds. So,
>> oh my goodness.
>> Twins. My god. I don't know how people
do it.
>> So, is this the chart?
>> Lisa,
>> is is this it here? Is this the chart
people want?
>> Yeah. See down there at the bottom?
Doesn't it show 2526 budget for It's got
town budget right there.
>> 3.9.
>> So, the budget would be four what last
year was 4198433 and this year it's
4363.
>> Okay.
>> Right. Because it's got includes
capital. So, that includes operating
income.
>> It's what we're looking at right now.
This number is correct.
>> 3.9.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah.
>> And again, guys, this is my version that
I've been messing around with. I
>> just took a picture of it
>> over me.
>> Yeah. It should be on the bottom of the
budget book, too.
>> Okay. But Lisa, you're gonna send that
to all of us tomorrow, right? But
>> Lisa has
the proper version. Yeah.
>> Mine is for our, you know, as we
discussed and Bill, do you want the
budget book and the mill rate sheet or
are you talking just about the mill rate
sheet?
>> I guess I'll try and send it to but
honestly I am going to ask her with to
be seriously with twins two-year-old
twins all day tomorrow
Friday or
>> I'm there Friday too those two days.
Okay.
>> All right. Monday we have Rob. You sent
it to us. You sent it to us on the 12th.
We have it.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not updated. Um
>> Um
and you're you're going to die because
Saturday I'm going out of state to see
my mother in the nursing home and Sunday
I'm playing in a basketball tournament
in Rutland, Vermont. So, it will have to
be Monday. I'm sorry.
>> Make it Monday.
>> Enjoy yourself and forget about the
life. Goodness gracious.
>> Monday is fine, Lisa.
>> Yeah. Don't worry about it.
>> I just felt like everything I do, I got
to make sure it's really right. And it
is right, but I want to take out all the
shading of the lines and everything.
Bill, I can go ahead and send it if you
want. I just want to make sure public
presentation is perfect. So,
>> yeah. No, the money's fine.
>> Okay. All right.
>> We'll make it work. Thank you, Lisa. I
know you got a lot going on. Believe me,
I understand.
>> All right. I'm gonna go and eat. Yes, I
haven't.
Seriously, I haven't had dinner yet
either. I got 10 that I'm probably
burning right now. All right,
>> you guys don't need me anymore, right?
You're all
>> You're done.
>> Okay,
>> literally all that's left is motion to
adjurnn.
>> Motion to second.
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay, I believe Bill motion Kim got the
first. She got it in there.
>> All right.
All in favor? No. Nope. I'm gonna go
around. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> yep.
>> Kim,
>> yes.
>> Heather,
>> Louise,
>> yes.
>> Nick,
>> Me, yes. All right, guys. Thank you. I
think we made some progress. I
appreciate it. I'm going to stop
recording now.